working titles
--------------
	Anasazi Dreams

	Tawa's Children

	Sipapu



plotlines
---------
1)	Young male must travel alone to neighboring tribe's land to prove
	his acension to manhood.

2)	




character names
---------------
Piku	- cliff painter

Tani	- Piku's wife

Paka

Tima

Loma	- master cliff painter

Toko	- apprentice cliff painter

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


				Sipapu

			by Brian Scott Lingard

	
	Piku awoke when a sliver of sunlight filtered into the kiva and lapped
at his face.  He rose and stretched.  The muscles of his thin body were taut
and wiry.  The cool morning air suddenly made him shiver.  The mornings were
always cooler after the harvest time.

	He climbed the ladder and stood upon the roof of the kiva.  Another
cloudless sky.  Piku could not remember the last time it had rained.  The 
harvest had been very poor.  Perhaps the poorest harvest in all of the 
collective memory of the pueblo.  The elders had tried all the traditional 
prayers and supplications.  But nothing had worked.  The children of Tawa 
were starving.

	Piku couldn't understand how Tawa could let her people starve to 
death.  Had she not bore the original People?  Could she care so little for
her Children?  Was she not the Spider Grandmother?  Even as a child, 
Piku had seen Tawa's benevolent side.  Both the harvest and the hunt had 
always been bountiful.  Many babies had been born.  The pueblo had been alive 
with the joyful voices of children.

	Now the voices were silent.  Fewer and fewer babies blessed the 
pueblo.  Many of the children had simply starved or succumbed to unknown
ills.  Most of his own children had died.  Piku was very angry with Tawa.  He
knew that he shouldn't feel that way, but he couldn't help it.  Tawa always 
had a reason for what she did to her children.  Reasons beyond the 
understanding of even the elders.

	Piku climbed down off the roof of the kiva and hurried to his
house.  His wife, Tani, was just waking, but he didn't speak to her.  Instead, 
he grabbed a bag and left, walking briskly away from the pueblo.  

	The morning sun was beginning to warm the desert air.  A few birds
flittered from a bush near the path.  Piku followed the path until it ended
beneath a massive sandstone cliff.  The cliff towered above Piku, nearly 
twenty times his height.  Piku knelt before a painting of a man-like figure. 
There were several paintings of various figures and animals covering
the cliff face.  Some of the paintings were multi-colored.  Others were 
of a single color, but were partially carved into the cliff face itself.

	Piku withdrew a stiff brush from his bag.  He also removed a couple
of small pouches, one held some red pigment, the other white.  He dabbed his 
brush into the white pigment and began working on the figure before him.  This 
figure only vaguely resembled one of Piku's people.  It had multiple 
appendages sprouting from its head.  The figure was a symbol of what the
elder's called the God of Rain.  Piku held a vague hope that painting this
symbol would help with the next season's harvest.

	Piku had learned his painting skills from Loma, the master painter.
But since Loma was in his elder years, Piku had taken up Toko as his 
apprentice.  Toko was a quick learner and a good student.  Almost as good
a student as Piku had been for Loma.  Once Loma died, Piku would become the
master painter.  And only he or his apprentice were allowed to create
the ceremonial images.

	Voices could now be heard coming from the direction of the pueblo.
Soon, Toko would come looking for Piku to get today's lesson.  Piku didn't
know what he would show him today.  Maybe he would have Toko pick away at
one of the carved pictures.  That was the kind of image Piku always hated
to create.  He much preferred creating the multi-colored images.
 



	

