
				An Evil Find

				     by

			     Brian Scott Lingard



	We found the first of them while Sotta and I were playing inside the 
old concrete ruins.  We had never seen anything like them before.  They were 
cast into the shapes of figures, most no longer than my thumb.  They were made 
out of some kind of soft metal that deformed easily when pressed.  Tiny bits of 
color adhered to the surfaces of the figures.

	Sotta and I just played with them.  We didn't have any other toys, 
and neither of us had enough money to buy toys at the annual festival which
came into town late in the year.  We made believe that the figures were some
fierce army of mutant soldiers, bent on conquering the land.  We held mock
battles amongst the piles of dirt and debris which filled the ruins behind
our home.  

	Sotta was an orphan and my mother had taken him in out of pity, after
his parents succumbed to the Black Death.  It wasn't an easy thing to decide, 
since we barely had enough food to feed ourselves.  My father died a couple of 
years ago, also from the Black Death.  And my mother could only find the 
occasional odd job around the village to earn money.

	The plague had been with us for over five years, ever since the
skirmish on the other side of the river.  We never did figure out what it was 
all about.  It hadn't lasted long, only about three days.  There were bright 
lights and tremendous claps of thunder.  A huge cloud of smoke rose up from 
what used to be the town of Hanova.  No one from our village dared to 
investigate.  The people from Hanova stopped passing through our village after 
that skirmish.  

	My afternoon rest period was suddenly disturbed by Sotta's high pitched
voice, shouting at my mother.  I slipped from bed and hopped into the next 
room.  I caught the end of a sentence.

	"... make me eat.  I want to play figures!"

	My mother looked at me and said, "Please make your friend understand
that he must eat.  We can't afford to waste food.  If he'd rather scrounge for 
food amongst the ruins, that's fine by me.  But as long as he's living here, 
he must eat what I give him."

	Sotta sat on the floor near the fireplace, the light from the flames
emphasized his already red hair.  I went over to Sotta and whispered, "Eat now 
and we'll play figures right after, okay?"

	His sobs ended and his tears stopped.  He looked up and said, "You
promise?"

	"Yes, I promise."  I passed my left arm across my chest.  "Now eat."

	Sotta jumped up and joined my mother sitting at the table.  I sat
across from my mother.

	"I swear that boy is more trouble than I ever dreamed," said my mother, 
as she placed some meat on each of our plates.

	We quickly finished our meals, and Sotta and I ran from the house.
We headed to the secret place where our beloved figures were hid.  I removed
the rocks which covered the hole.  I was at least a foot taller than Sotta, so
only I could reach the hole.  It wasn't that I didn't trust him, I just didn't
want him handling the figures when I wasn't around.

	I pulled the bag containing the figures from the hole and replaced 
the rocks.  Sotta followed me to our favorite play spot.  We sat cross-legged
and dumped out the figures between us.  We each sat and marveled at the 
little toys, picking them up and examining them.

	"I like this one best," Sotta announced, holding one figure high in
the air.  "I like the curly, twisty things on it."

	"Yes, that one is nice, but my favorite one is this one."  I held
the figure before Sotta's admiring eyes.  The figure I held was of some
monstrously hideous creature.  It looked as if it had also suffered from the
Black Death.  It's flesh was shriveled and decayed looking.  Bizarre appendages
sprouted from numerous places.  

	"Let's go look for more, Appa, please?"  Sotta tugged at my sleeve.

	"Well, I suppose it's okay.  It's still light enough.  Help me put 
these back in the bag."

	We scooped up the figures and dropped them into the bag.  I tightened
the cinch at the top and said, "Let's go."

	We walked towards the concrete ruins which stood at the edge of the 
village.  No one knew what the structure had been.  A few speculated that it
might have been a place where people lived long ago, or maybe it had been a 
place of trade.  As far as most villagers were concerned, the ruins had just 
simply always been there.

	Entering the ruins through a wide crack in one wall, we tried to be 
quiet.  Sometimes animals gathered in the hidden rooms, and it was always fun 
to surprise them.  So far neither of us had seen any.  The late 
afternoon sun crept between gaps in the upper part of the structure, barely
displacing the darkness.  My eyes adjusted slowly.  It was as it had always
been on all of our explorations.  Bits of rubble, rock, and piles of broken
things were scattered about at random.  

	The room in which we had found the figures was to our right, a little 
ways down a hallway.  I walked towards the hall.  Sotta followed, his hand
clung to my shirt.  He was always scared when we came in here, but he always 
wanted to return.  It was darker in the hallway.  We paused at each doorway
and peeked in.  All the rooms were empty.  No animals.  The second to the
last room on the left was were we had found the figures.  We peered into the 
room.  Far more clutter filled this room.  Papery things which felt like
dried leaves laid split open all about.  Tattered clothes were torn 
into thin strips and hung from everywhere.  Wooden fragments stuck up like
broken trees.

	I said to Sotta, "You go look over there," while pointing to the 
nearest corner.  "I'll look back here."

	Sotta reluctantly let go of my shirt and headed into the corner, 
climbing over debris.  

	I carefully stepped over piles of those papery things.  At the back 
of the room, there were boxes brimming with all kinds of marvelous and 
strange things.  I could never figure out what anything was, no matter how
many times I had been here.  I pulled objects from the boxes and looked
inside.

	Suddenly, Sotta yelled, "Appa!  Appa!  Come quick!"  He was jumping
up and down with excitement.  Maybe he had found something good.

	I carefully picked my way over to him and looked at where he
indicated.  There sat a box, with pictures covering it.  The pictures were
reminiscent of the other figures we had found.  I bent down and picked it
up.  There was some kind of writing on the box, but neither Sotta nor I 
could read it.

