			The Horror From Harmony Hill

			   by Brian Scott Lingard




	The dusty third volume of Colonel Thomas Henry Mapp's diary weighed
heavily upon John Mapp's thighs.  The brittle pages rustled in the slight
breeze brushing past.  John sat on a boulder at the edge of an old logging
road and read a few entries from the crumbling diary.  The diary belonged to
a long dead ancestor of John's.  Colonel Mapp was a British army officer 
who fought American rebels in a bitter battle during later half of the 
Revolutionary War.

	John had recently found the diaries when he was called by his aunt 
to go through some old things in the attic of his recently deceased 
grandfather's house.  







Notes:

Harmony Hill 

The site of a bitter battle during the later part of the Revolutionary War out 
in western Massachusetts near the New York border.  There is a glacial cave on 
the southern side of the hill.  The cave is deep, dark, and dank.  The locals 
shun the place, as the hill always seems to be shrouded in mist and clouds. On 
every new moon strange howls and shrieks emanate from the hill and echo down 
the valley.  Near the cave entrance virtually no vegetation grows.  

The battlefield itself has completely overgrown in the 200 years since it 
took place, though signs of its occurrance still can be found.  The battle 
itself was strange in that only a few soldiers on either side survived 
the battle.  And those that did survive were clearly insane, babbling about 
a tentacled creature ripping men into shreds.  Colonel Mapp was actually among 
those that survived but he was way over the edge, and was quietly stripped of 
his command and placed in an asylum for the rest of his days.


R. John Mapp 

A widower in his late forties who was named after a long dead ancestor Colonel 
Thomas Henry Mapp.  Upon discovering some old diaries belonging to Colonel 
Mapp, John decides to travel to Harmony Hill to visit the battlefield site 
and pay homage to his ancestor.  Some of the diary entries have the appearance 
of being written by a man who was slowly losing his mind.  John assumes that
the Colonel's state of mind was probably due to lead contanimation from his 
drinking cup that was so prevalent in those days.  So he doesn't put much 
stock in some of the wilder entries.  The diary entries stop just before the
battle ended.


Colonel Thomas Henry Mapp

British army Captain who unwittingly unleashed an unspeakable horror during 
his assault on the rebel forces camped out near Harmony Hill.  He was slowly
driven insane by some unseen force.  Though he physically survived the battle
along with a handful of other soldiers, he had lost the battle for control
of his mind.  No one from his family ever saw or heard from him again.  They
had presumed he died during the battle at Harmony Hill.


Revolutionary War

Took place from 17xx to 17xx.  Battle lines nearest western Mass were TBD.
