Notes on Revised version of "The Heart Stone"
---------------------------------------------


Hanar the Horrible

	Hanar is a warrior in the truest sense of the word.  He has fought
in many battles over the years, but recently has grown weary of fighting
for one warlord after another.  He now travels from place to place in search
of adventure and monetary reward.  He has a reputation as a fierce fighter
among the dwarves of Kazdan, having slain many in battle.

	Physically he about six and half feet tall, with a very muscular 
build.  He has grey eyes, blondish-brown hair, and many battle scars.  He
has sported a long beard for most of life.  He has never married and only
rarely seeks out female companionship.  

	Hanar's mother died of some kind of sickness when he was only 12 years 
old.  Hanar left his home in Eron when he was but 15 years old, and has 
only returned twice.  His father was very disappointed in him, since Hanar 
did not join the family ore trading business.  Though Hanar has always liked 
the coast, he was never very interested in life aboard ships.  Hanar's 
brother, Ednar, however, did join the family business and chides Hanar for 
not doing the same whenever they are together.  

	Often times people will pick fights with Hanar due to his physical
stature.  Hanar has, on occasion, killed someone who would not back down.
He is often haunted by these events, and feels guilty every time it happens.

	Hanar distrusts things magical and usually avoids contact with wizards 
and such.  He absolutely refuses to use magical weapons.  It is not that he 
actually fears magic, he just doesn't see the use for it in battle.  He
secretly believes that sorcery may have been the ultimate cause of his
mother's death, though he cannot say how.  This is perhaps the chief source
of his distrust of magic.

	Hanar does not like horses and prefers to travel on foot, despite
the time this mode of transport requires.  He has been known to accept
rides by farmers using a cart.  Though he has often been just one of many
during his campaign years, he prefers to follow solitary ways.  He always
refused to take part in the ridiculous team-building games his comrades used 
to play during breaks in the battles.  He reluctantly travels with others.



Verona (thief)

	Verona is a thief and an opportunist, taking advantage of situations 
as they occur in her life.  She has never planned anything in her life.  
Though she possesses great skill in her chosen profession, she has not attained 
any notoriety due to her lack of planning.  Thus she has basically eaked out
a living wandering here and there, stealing what she comes across.

	Physically she is small, under five feet tall, but very physically
fit.  She has a great deal of endurance, and can handle the worst of
conditions.  She has dark brown, longish hair, which hangs fairly straight and 
often obscures her dark green eyes.  Verona usually wears leather garments 
which hide her sex somewhat.  When she is working, she ties her hair underneath 
a black handkerchief as a further disguise.

	Verona also left home at the early age of twelve, but because
her parents were murdered by barbarians from the Wilderlands.  Her home town,
Darnoth, is on the north-western outskirts of the Kingdom of Ghant.  She has
never returned home.  She often has nightmares about that night.  She holds
a great deal of animosity towards any barbarian-type people and in particular
against the tribes in the Wilderlands.

	She has managed to travel across many regions of Ghant in only a 
dozen years of being on her own.  On occasion she has narrowly escaped being
captured for thievery, or escaped being captured by some slavelord.

	She enjoys the company of a man, but has no desire towards marriage, 
rarely allowing herself to become involved with any one mate.  She has a 
special affinity for wizards and things magical.  She realizes that if her
parents had not been killed when she was still very young, she may have 
seeked out the education necessary for a life in pursuit of things magical.
She has no objections to using magical weapons, and in fact had "come upon"
a magical throwing dagger several years earlier.

	Verona generally tries to avoid fights of any kind and prefers to 
operate using stealth.  But when pressed into a fight for her own life, she is
more than capable of defending herself.



Old Man (Melinkuron the old wizard)

	The Old Man was once a wizard of great power, who often helped the 
King and the King's father in decades past.  But now the years have caught 
up with him.  His mind is not as good as it used to be, but his health has 
remained excellent despite the years.  He sometimes has trouble remembering
the keywords for certain spells.

	He often dresses in a manner which makes him appear to be a begger
of sorts.  He wears tattered robes and appears to be much more frail than
he actually is.  His hair and beard is mostly white with some grey streaks. 
His eyes are slate-blue.  Though he is not often recognized, his name, 
Melinkuron, is known throughout the kingdom.

	He rarely ventures far from his home near Dalanth but is occasionally 
seen around the town.  He will perform small tasks for the area's farmers
and others when asked, but always expects payment for his services up front.
Though he is not rich, he has retained much of the payment given to him by
the royal court for tasks performed years ago.

	His home is a modest farm not far from Dalanth.  He has never married
and has never sought out the company of women, having chosen celibacy when
he was a young man.  He has maintained his home by himself ever since he
came to this region of Ghant some twenty odd years ago.

	He has not been pleased with the events involving Martek in recent
years and has often thought about trying to remedy the situation himself, but
has always left it up to the King to handle the problem.

	In years past, he was one of the key members of a force which 
defeated the ghastly warlords of Ranosith when they tried to take over Ghant.
From those battles he obtained several artifacts which enable great magical
power.  He has carefully guarded both their whereabouts and the facts of
their existence for many years.  But a couple of years ago, he grew careless
and publicly discussed the nature of one such artifact, the Heart Stone, with 
some people in town.  These people in turn talked and eventually Martek learned 
about the existence of this relic.  Melinkuron fears that Martek will attempt
to steal the artifact.  He has decided that the Heart Stone must be moved to 
a safer hiding place some distance from the Dalanth region.



Martek (the Evil Cleric)

	Martek is an aging cleric who chose long ago to follow a darker path 
in his quest for spirtual enlightenment.  He has always seen the Elder Gods 
as somehow weak, and has preferred instead to worship those Gods who were 
cast out by the Elder Gods.  He has managed to recruit other people who were 
also similarly cast out of society as members of his castle guard and as
members of his small army.

	Martek has always been greedy and power hungry.  He has often 
fantasized about taking control of the Kingdom of Ghant, but has never
had the necessary resources.  In the meantime, he has simply made life
difficult for the King in the region of Ghant around Dalanth.

	A good part of Martek's castle is in ruins, since he had to forceably
take it from the previous owner.  Most of the local people steer well clear of
the countryside surrounding the castle.  Martek has set up some potent
defenses and has made examples of those foolhardy enough to attempt an 
approach by impaling their skulls upon poles scattered around his castle.

	Physically he is of medium stature, with mostly grey hair and beard,
and has dull sunken eyes.  He normally wears a tattered brown and black 
cloak and always carries his staff.  His staff serves as his chief weapon 
in combat and as a focal point of clerical spells which he uses frequently.

	Whenever Martek hears of a particular item which could secure him
more power, he sends out a raiding party to retrieve the item from its 
owner.  Martek rarely travels with his raiding parties.  Martek rarely
travels anywhere, instead he relies on his recruits to be his eyes and ears
in his dominion.  He prefers to study the ancient texts for ways in which
to enlist the aid of his cast out Gods.

	Having learned of the existance of the Heart Stone, he realizes its
true potential in his quest for control over Ghant.  It would serve him
well in pursuit of his dream.  His arrogance over his ability to get what
he wants, however, has alerted Melinkuron to his plans.  Martek must now
resort to more covert and evil ways to retrieve the artifact.  He has even
considered requesting the direct aid of one of his cast out Gods.



The Heart Stone

	The Heart Stone (the stone hereafter) is a sky-blue crystal object
which is roughly oval shaped and is about the size of a man's fist.  The 
object is a magical weapon of significant power.  The stone can emit multiple
lightning bolts upon the will of the holder, where each bolt is capable of 
killing a man on the spot.  The stone can emit several bursts of lightning 
bolts per day, but since it actually drains some energy from the holder it
is limited by the strength and health of the holder.

	The stone was created by a sorcerer hundreds of years ago when evil
was widespread in the land.  The stone was used in the many wars against the
warlords of Ranosith.  It fell into the hands of one the warlords and nearly
caused the defeat of King TBD during one such war.

	The stone was recovered from Ranosith during the last war that occurred
some fifty years ago.  The old wizard Melinkuron was solely responsible for its 
recovery and has been its protector ever since.  Other ancient weapons were 
also recovered after the utter defeat of the warlords, but little is publicly 
known of their nature nor their whereabouts.



Dalanth

	Dalanth is a medium sized town located near the eastern edge of the 
Kingdom of Ghant.  It has mainly been the center of a prosperous farming 
region until the recent influence of Martek's actions in the area.

	Most of the townspeople make their living from farming, though 
some make a reasonable living off the frequent travelers who pass through 
the town.  Dalanth is located on a major east-west road which leads from
the east coastal region to the central region of Ghant near the capitol
of Trelonith.

	Once a year, the townspeople hold a competition involving several 
different kinds of weapons.  This competition is held in conjunction with 
the harvest festival at the end of summer.  This event is known throughout
the eastern portion of Ghant and attracts many people from places as far 
away as TBD.  It is usually a festive and happy time for the people of
Dalanth, since it is the only time of the year when they can truly enjoy
themselves and not think about all the hard work they do all year.



Synopsis of Plot





--------------------------

Other Background Information


World of Anur

	Anur is one of the major continents in the world.  Others are thought
to exist, but no one seriously believes it.  Most sea travel has been 
limited to trips between islands and island groups which are not very 
far off the coast of Anur.  The navigational skills of most sailors is
not sufficiently advanced enough to allow travel across great expanses of
ocean.  There have been a few sailors who have tried, but all have failed
to return, prompting tales of sea monsters and such.

	As noted below, Anur is divided politically into three separate 
"kingdoms" -- Ghant, Kazdan, and loosely Ranosith.  The major races who live
on Anur are humans, dwarves, elves, and sloggs.  Humans mainly live in the 
kingdom of Ghant, but there are many who choose to live in Ranosith.  The
dwarves almost all live in Kazdan.  The elves mostly live with the humans
in Ghant, in a semi-autonomous fashion.  And the sloggs live exclusively
in the darker reaches of Ranosith.

	In the northwest corner of Anur is a land known as the Wilderlands,
which has remained independant of any of the kingdoms of Anur.  The Wilderlands
are an extremely rugged and wild land.  Various barbarous tribes control
the entire region.  The terrain itself has precluded any one tribe from
dominating another tribe.  The barbarian tribes often mount attacks on 
towns which border the Wilderlands, taking anything they want and destroying
anything they do not want.



Land of Ghant

	The Kingdom of Ghant is perhaps the largest on Anur, covering the
central, south-central, and eastern regions.  A variety of terrain is found
within Ghant, ranging from mountainous, ancient forests, vast plains, and
fertile coastal regions.

	Humans make up most of the populace, but there is a colony of elves
who live in the ancient forests of Lithfar.  Lithfar is near the border
of Ranosith, which is on the western side of the Grey Mountains.  Lithfar is
somewhat surrounded on the eastern side by another range of mountains known 
as the Withered Mountains.  The Withered Mountains are remarkable in one sense 
the entire range is split down the middle by a huge gap called Guard's Gap.  
This was the site of a tremendous battle thousands of years ago between the 
Elder Gods and the renegade Gods.  So fierce was this battle that the very 
mountains were rent asunder.  Today, landdragons are known to prowl this area 
for unsuspecting prey.

	There has been relative peace in the land since the last war with 
Ranosith ended about fifty years ago with the utter defeat of the evil
warlords.  A few petty squabbles have kept the King's guard busy in the 
intervening years.  The relatively recent opening of the borders with Kazdan
has helped warm relations with the dwarves.

	The last two hundred years or so have seen the continual rule of a 
single royal family over the land.  This has brought a stability to most 
peoples lives and far less fear of new wars with Ranosith.  The previous 
centuries had been fairly turbulent, since there had often been wars fought
on two fronts.



King TBD of Ghant

	King TBD has ruled for the last ten years, ever since his father,
King TBD, died of old age.  His father had ruled for over sixty years, when
he had taken over for his father before him.



Land of Ranosith

	The Land of Ranosith is a desolate region in the southwest corner
of the continent of Anur.  The Grey Mountains form a natural barrier between
Ranosith and the Kingdom of Ghant to the east.  To the north the Grey Mountains
degenerate into a massively rugged land known as the Wilderlands, where no
one dares to venture alone.  Most of the southern region of Ranosith consists 
of vast stretches of jungles and dank swamps.  The northern-most end of Ranosith
dries out some and in some areas has become a desert.

	An ancient evil has always seemed to dwell in Ranosith for as long as
anyone can remember.  In centuries past, a great many battles have been fought 
on the part of many scattered warlords who have chosen Ranosith has their
homeland.  At various times they have come together under the control of one 
particular warlord or another and have waged war upon the Kingdom of Ghant 
to varying degrees of success.  Thus far, there has never been a solid leader
for the warlords, and as such any cooperation that is achieved eventually
degenerates into squabbling amongst the different factions and their 
leaders.  The most successful leader, TBD, died over some seven hundred 
years ago during one of the first wars with Ghant.

	Since the last attempt at war with Ghant was defeated about fifty 
years ago, the warlords have retreated to their respective dominions and have 
resumed fighting amongst themselves.  The various warlords often disagree
on how best to serve the evil Gods. 

	Anyone who has dared travel within Ranosith and survived, tells
tales of unbelievable horror.  Many strange creatures have been reported.
Certain kinds of dragons have been spotted as well.  Some of the religous
practices observed chill an honest man to the core of his being.  Sacrifices,
cannabilism, beheadings have all been seen during travels within Ranosith.  

	A degenerate race of beings known as the sloggs make their homes
in the deepest reaches of Ranosith.  They stand bipedally and their skin has 
a scaly aspect to it.  They are not cold blooded, and in no way are they
descended from reptiles.  They seem to have suffered some genetic alteration
due to some long forgotten sorcery.  Most often the humans who live in 
Ranosith capture the sloggs and force them into slavery.  The sloggs are 
rugged and very capable laborers.  They are normally not aggressive and in 
fact tend to be rather docile.  They have been trained in the past to be
fairly effective soldiers.



Land of Kazdan

	The Land of Kazdan is a very mountainous and cold region to the north
of Ghant on the continent of Anur.  Kazdan has traditionally been the home
of the dwarves.  The dwarves have recently begun to allow humans to move into
some of the outlying regions of Kazdan in the interest of bolstering trade.
There has been isolated skirmishes between humans and those dwarves who 
disagree with their King on this subject.  But for the most part, humans
and dwarves seem to be getting along just fine.

	In centuries past, there were often wars fought between Ghant and
Kazdan, usually involving disagreements over border regions.  However, when 
the need for unity against the common enemy of the warlords of Ranosith arose, 
the humans and dwarves chose to fight together instead of against one 
another.  That cooperation of about fifty years ago has had long lasting
repercussions.  Both humans and dwarves realized that each needed the
other.  Trading and political alliances have evolved since that initial 
cooperation.

	Kazdan is a land that is rich in many mineral ores.  Many metals are
now exported to Ghant under the new political climate.  The dwarves in turn
receive many raw foodstuffs (such as wheat, oats, etc.) in payment.  Though
Kazdan has some regions which are capable of growing food, the short growing
season precludes having a sufficient surplus of crops.



Gods of Anur

The gods of Anur are TBD.





	
Timeline

0	- present day
	  Martek steals Heart Stone from Old Wizard.

-2	- Martek learns about Heart Stone.

-25	- Kazdan opens up borders between Ghant and Kazdan


~50	- Last war against Ranosith ended.
	  Old Wizard recovers Heart Stone and some other weapons.


~150	- Heart Stone lost in battle with Ranosith.  King TBD nearly defeated.


~200	- Last major war with Kazdan.


~500	- Heart Stone created.



~700	- First war against Ranosith ended with death of TBD.



Misc

Eltheel -- a elf who lives in Lithfar who gets ideas for adventure and
wanders into Guard's Gap, and narrowly escapes the icy breath of a land
dragon.
