
			The Man Who Drew Himself

				  by
	
			  Brian Scott Lingard


	I started drawing myself when I just a little kid, maybe six years 
old.  I used the requisite box of a hundred crayons that nearly every kid 
had at that age.  The nuns at the orphanage were always impressed with my 
drawings.  They all claimed I would be a real life 'Rembrant' someday.   In 
some ways, they were right.

	I had entered art school immediately after graduating from Waltham
High and then I moved into an apartment on Beacon Street in the city.  Boston
was an expensive place to live, but I couldn't afford a car to commute.  
Growing up as an orphan, living in foster home after foster home, I never 
really had anyone to offer me support.  At least, I managed to win a 
scholarship to pay for my tuition.  I worked whatever odd jobs I could 
find to pay the rent.  Having Jigger as a roommate helped.  

	Everything was going great until one day last week.  I was putting 
the finishing touches on a still life of some roses in a vase, when I 
noticed that something strange had happened.  Sitting beside the model vase 
was a perfect replica.  Where there had previously been only one vase, now 
there were two.  They were exactly the same, right down to the patterns of 
the leaves on the rose stems.  I touched the vase and it was solid.  I had 
no explanation.  

	While I examined the new vase, Jigger returned home after his last 
class.  His real name was Jason Watkins, seemed he thought Jigger was a 
flashier name for a bartender.  His co-workers at Axis thought it was kind 
of stupid, but the B.U. girls seemed to like it.

	"Feel like going drinking tonight?" he asked me, after slamming the 
door shut, no doubt pissing off the neighbors.

	I didn't answer him.  I was still dumbfounded by what I was looking
at.

	"Danny boy, what's the matter with you?"  Danny was what Jigger and
everyone else I knew called me, but the nuns had named me Daniel Bascomb. 
Jigger approached me, with slight concern.  He looked at the pair of vases 
and then at my drawing.  "Looks like you're one vase shy there, Danny boy."

	"Well," I began, "just before you came in, there was only one vase 
sitting there."

	"What are you talking about?"

	"Just like I said.  I was working on a painting of a rose vase, then
I looked up and poof.  There were two of them."

	Jigger looked at me and folded his arms in front of his chest.  "Ah ... 
you didn't go dipping into your stash this afternoon, did you?"

	"Jigger, I'm trying to tell you that something weird is going on here.
I'm not even sure I believe it."

	"Well, when you figure it out, let me know.  I've got to get ready
for work."  Jigger turned and disappeared into the bathroom.  The muffled 
sound of the shower came from behind the door. 

	I sat at the table in front of the vases and stared.  What the hell 
is going on?  This has to be impossible.  I must be losing my mind.  Maybe 
I should go to Axis with Jigger tonight.  Maybe it would calm my nerves a 
bit.

	Once Jigger had finished getting ready, I ducked into the bathroom
myself.   The least I could do was wash my face and brush my teeth, before
trying to meet some girls.  I walked with Jigger down to the club.  It was 
still early.  The real party crowd never showed up until after ten on 
most nights.  After having a couple of beers and after failing to strike
up a conversation with a couple of nice young women, I decided to go home 
early.  Jigger was disappointed in me.  I just wasn't in a partying mood.

	I returned home and sat at the table again.  The twin vases were 
still there.  The delicate patterns in the crystal mirrored between the
two vases.  Each petal of one set of roses matched those of the other set, 
both in color and texture.  

	I had an idea and removed the two vases from the table and placed 
them upon the kitchen counter.  I went back to my easel and switched on the 
overhead lights.  After squeezing out some paints on the palette, I started 
painting.  The outlined curves took shape slowly.  The soft fur portrayed 
realistically in shades of brown, black, and white.  I carefully painted in 
the whiskers and the fine hairs jutting from the ears.  As I added the final 
details to the painting, I heard an unmistakeable and distinct meow.  And 
there before me, laying curled up on the table as I had painted it, was a 
cat.  It looked at me and blinked.

	As I suspected, the cat was an exact copy of what was on my canvas.
The cat got up and stretched, then walked to the edge of the table, meowing
and purring.  I went over and picked it up.  It was soft, warm, a real live
cat.  It pushed its head against my hand as I brushed it.  This had to be
impossible.  There was no way I could convince myself this had really
happened.  But it had happened.  The proof was in my arms.

	I was surprised when the door to the apartment opened unexpectedly.
Jigger was home already.  I guessed it was later than I had realized.  He 
immediately noticed the cat. 
 
	"Taking in strays, now, Danny boy?"  he asked, throwing his keys onto
the counter.  "You know we can't keep it.  Old man Smurton won't think twice
about throwing our asses out into the street, if he finds that cat here."

	"I know that, but this cat isn't a stray.  I painted it."  I pointed
at my canvas.

	"Yeah, well, you can keep the painting but the cat's got to go."  
Jigger searched through the cupboards for a snack.

	"No.  You don't understand," I tried to explain, "First, there was
no cat, then I painted what I know a cat looks like.  And poof, like
the rose, it suddenly appeared."

	Jigger turned towards me, stuffing some cheese crackers into his
mouth.  He asked, between chews, "How much did you have to drink tonight? 
I only served you two beers.  You can't be that drunk."

	"I'm not drunk.  I'm telling you the truth.  This cat popped into 
existence, out of nowhere."  My face reddened.  I was getting angry, though
it really wasn't Jigger's fault.

	"Take it easy, Danny boy," he came over to me and rested his hand on
my shoulder.  "You've obviously had a rough night.  Those girl's weren't too
kind to you.  They're all just blind to what a wonderful dude you really 
are."  Jigger retreated to the living room and plunked down into the sofa.
He clicked on the television.  A music video blared from the set.  

	I went into the kitchen and put the cat onto the floor.  I pulled 
out a saucer, poured in some milk, and placed it on the floor in front of 
the cat.  It licked the milk eagerly.  It was hungry.  

	I joined Jigger in the living room, slouching in the beat up, old
recliner.  I kicked back and said, "What's happening to me, Jig?"

	Jigger studied me for a moment and then asked, "Have you been under 
a lot of stress at school?"

	I stared at the ceiling.  "No more than usual."  

	"It's not your birthday, is it?  I know how much you hate your
birthday."  He clicked to another channel, and then to another.

	"No, it's not my birthday, and I'm not missing my non-existent 
parents, either."  I closed my eyes and tried to think calming thoughts.  It 
wasn't working.  I couldn't get my mind to accept the reality of what had 
happened.

	I was startled when the cat jumped into my lap.  It walked around in
a circle a few times and then settled in for a nap.

	"At least your new friend likes you,"  said Jigger, pointing at the
ball of fur purring in my lap, "Too bad we can't keep it.  It's kind of 
cute."

	We sat in silence for what must have been an hour.  Jigger flicked 
between at least three different shows, all bad.  Late night television just
wasn't as good as it used to be.  I was just nodding off when Jigger stood up
and tossed the remote into my lap and said goodnight.  The remote missed the 
cat's head by inches.  The cat lifted its head, suddenly alert.  I brushed 
its fur, trying to calm it.

	My thoughts returned to the mystery laying in my lap.  I'll show
him, I thought.  I'll paint something that'll leave no doubt in his mind about 
what I've been telling him.  I scooped up the sleeping cat, laid it in the 
chair after I had stood up.  I returned once again to my easel and put up
a new canvas.  I refreshed the paints on the palette and began painting.
After half an hour, I had finished the outline of my figure.  It took more 
than two hours to flesh out the details.  I tried to work quickly, but I knew 
also had to work carefully or else the result wouldn't be right.

	I had nearly finished the painting when a crackling and tearing sound
came from behind the canvas.  I peered around the edge and looked at the 
table behind.  To my surprise, a figure was sitting on the table, wrapped in
what appeared to be painted canvas.  It was ripping long gashes through the 
fabric, sticking an arm out of each rip.  The rips elongated and the figure 
poked its head out the top of the canvas wrapping.  The remants of the canvas
fell to the floor.

	There sitting on the table was my ex-girlfriend, Julia Banks.  She
seemed stunned to be there.  Pushing the last few remaining scraps of canvas
off her body, she stood up.  It was then that she saw me.

	"How did I get here?" she asked me with a quizzical look.

	"I'm not sure I can explain that properly," I replied, "You probably
won't believe me."

	She looked around at her surroundings, with a dawning awareness of 
where she actually was.  "I remember this place.  I'm also beginning to 
remember you.  You're Danny, right?"

	"Yes, I'm Danny.  We dated over two years ago."  I suddenly realized
that she was standing there naked, as I had painted her.  I looked around
for something that she could wear.  I found a pair of sweats and a dirty 
shirt, it would have to do.  

	"Perhaps, you should put these on," I said as I handed her the 
clothes.

	She took them and put them on, "Thanks, I was getting a bit 
chilly."  After she dressed, she asked, "So, do you want to try explaining 
why I'm here?  I don't remember coming in or even wanting to see you again."

	"Well,"  I paused, looking for the right way to explain, "Come here
and look at this."  I motioned for her to come over to the canvas sitting
on the easel.  

	"That's me.  So?  You painted lots of these."

	"Well, I just painted this one.  And when I was nearly finished, you
suddenly popped into existence, sitting on my table over there."

	"You're joking, right?  I knew you had a time getting over me, but
this is ridiculous.  We're through, understand."

	"Wait a minute, I have an idea."  I went over and grabbed the phone
off the coffee table.

	"Call your apartment.  You live alone, don't you?"

	"Yeah, but what's this going to prove?"

	"Just humor me."  I handed her the phone.  She dialed her number.
It rang.  After three rings, someone picked it up.

	"Hello?" said a voice on the handset.  "Who is this?"

	"Danny," Julia was startled, "How can this be?  That voice ...
it's mine."

	The voice on the phone was getting angry, "Look, I don't appreciate 
getting woken up in the middle of the night, so cut it out."  The sound
of the receiver slamming down came from the phone.  The dial tone cut in.

	Julia fell against the arm of the sofa.  I felt sorry for her.
I shouldn't have done this to her.  It was definitely a mistake to make 
this painting.  But I didn't know how to send her back or even it was 
possible to send her back.  Julia started to cry.

	"I don't understand.  How can I be here and at home?  What's going
on, Danny?"

	I tried my best to explain everything, starting with the two rose
vases and the cat.  I showed her the paintings and the results of them.
She had stopped crying.  

	Just then, Jigger stumbled out of his bedroom, dressed only in
gym shorts, and complained, "What the hell is all the noise?  Can't a guy 
get some sleep?"  

	Then he saw Julia.  

	"What the hell is she doing here?" he asked and rubbed his eyes.  "I
thought you guys broke up years ago.  You guys didn't meet up at the club,
did you?"

	"Well, Jigger, it's like I've been telling you.  I painted her."

	Jigger looked at me, then at Julia.

	Julia said, "Don't look at me.  I don't have a clue how I got here."

	"Well, of course you painted her.  I remember how many you did after
she left you.  Must of been at least a dozen different paintings."

	I said, "Julia, tell him about how you're here but somehow you're 
still at home in your apartment.  Tell him about the phone call."

	"For all I know, I dialed the wrong number."

	"Dial it again."  I pointed at the phone.

	Julia picked up the phone and dialed.  The same irate voice answered. 
Julia dropped the phone, scared.

	I replace the handset and put the phone back on the coffee table.

	Julia mumbled, "Just like before.  I don't understand."

	"What kind of crap are you pulling, Danny boy?"  Jigger was getting
upset.  He went over to the sofa and comforted Julia.  "You got this poor 
girl all worked up.  If this is your way of finally getting even with her, 
I think it stinks."  Julia sobbed into his shoulder.

	"I don't know how else to explain this.  You refuse to believe me.
Maybe a live demonstration would convince you."  I disappeared into my 
bedroom and returned to my easel carrying a mirror.  I put up yet another 
blank canvas.  "Please stay awake.  This shouldn't take too long."

	While looking at myself in the mirror, I painted.  I worked
furiously, large, bold, deft strokes all around the canvas.  I aimed for 
speed rather than for quality.  I hoped it would still work.

	Julia and Jigger talked quietly between themselves.  No doubt, they
discussed my mental status.  I noticed that they no longer appeared the 
comforter and the comfortee.  There were definite romantic sparks.  I had
always thought that Jigger was smitten by her.  Of course, out of respect for
me, he never said or did anything about it.  But now I wondered why he didn't 
chase after her once she had left me.

	I was nearly finished.  Then, while I adjusted the eyebrows and 
hairline, it happened just like with Julia.  Both Jigger and Julia looked 
up, startled.  There, on the table, sat a figure inside a canvas wrapping, 
punching and poking at the binding material.  It ripped.  The figure scrambled 
through the opening and fell onto the floor.  

	Both Julia's and Jigger's jaws dropped when the figure stood up and
they could see my nude twin standing before them.

	"Danny ... is that you?" Jigger asked me.  His shaking finger pointed
at the figure.

	The figure responded, "I prefer Daniel.  Danny's a boy's name.  I'm
no boy."

	I didn't know what to say.  I was just as awestruck as they were.  
What have I done?  If Julia was just a mistake, this was a total screw up.
How could I be so stupid?  

	The Daniel figure spoke again, "What am I doing here?  



