				Milkweed

			 by Brian Scott Lingard


	"Grampa, what did you do for fun as a child," Jeffrey asked.

	I thought a few moments.  "Well ... we used to do many things.  Of
course, back in those days, we didn't have TV or computers.  My parents had a
radio, but we only listened in the evenings.  I used to like the adventure 
shows the best, like Green Hornet and The Shadow."

	"Who are they?" he asked, perplexed.

	"Never mind.  Like I was saying, we did many things.  But the one
game I liked best, was having a milkweed war."  I eased further back into
the recliner.

	Jeffrey climbed up onto my knee.  "What's a milkweed?"

	"It's a tall plant that has these pods growing on them.  The pods 
had seeds in them and were also filled with a milky-white liquid.  When they 
hit you, they would burst open.  But only if they were soft and gushy enough."

	"Gross..."  Jeffrey squished his face up, the way that kids do.

	"Actually, it was a lot of fun.  The milky stuff washed out of your
clothes.  Though it did kind of hurt when you got hit.  But no more than
getting hit by a crab-apple.

	"Anyway, like I was saying.  My friends and I would divide up into
two teams, and we'd scour the hillside, gathering up as many milkweed pods 
as we could find.  Then everyone would either hide or begin searching for
kids on other team.  If you found someone, you had to hit them with a 
milkweed.  If you did, they were out.  The last team with no one hit won."

	"Did anybody ever get hurt?"

	"Occasionally.  They usually went off crying, and we just finished
the game without them.  But there was one time that my friend Dave got hurt
real bad.  We had to stop the game."

	"What happened to him?"

	"Well ... I'll tell you, but promise never to repeat this story to 
anyone."  I waved my finger at him for emphasis.

	Jeffrey made crossing motions across his chest.  "I promise, 
Grandpa."

					#

	It was the summer of my twelth birthday.  Dave, Tom, and I met one 
day near the hill that was behind the school yard.  Tom was my brother.  He 
died many years ago.  Heart failure, I think it was.  Dave was a kid who lived 
across the street from us.  He was a good kid.  I knew him from the time I was 
about six years old.  We did everything together.

	There were these four other kids from our school that were already 
there.  They were playing basketball and just kind of hanging out.  Summer's
back then were always kind of boring.  We all spent alot of time just hanging
out.

	We approached them and asked if they would be interested in a 
milkweed fight.  They said yes, and we decided that the teams would be us
against them.  They had never played before, so we had to explain the rules.

	"Okay then, you've got ten minutes to gather as many pods as you 
can.  Then the war begins.  Go!"  Dave and I ran as fast as we could towards
the spot where we knew all the best pods grew.  Tom took off for his favorite
spot.  My brother was a master at hiding.  He was always the last one found.
Dave and I employed our usual strategy -- he and I alternated between 
hiding and stalking, trying to flush out the enemy.

	The other four kids stayed together when they entered the woods.  If
they didn't break up, they would be easy targets.  

	The ten minutes went by quickly and I took the first turn as stalker.  
I had at least a couple dozen pods stuffed into my jacket pockets.  I could 
hear a couple of the other kids making some noise about hundred yards away.  
I crept up close behind them, then thrashed about and ran away towards the 
bushes where Dave was hiding.  As expected, they followed me.  I whizzed past 
the bushes.  Just as the first kid passed the bush, Dave stood up and pegged 
him square in the back.  The pod burst open and the milky liquid drooled down 
the kid's shirt.

	I whirled around and fired two quick volleys at the other kid.  The
first shot missed.  But the second one hit him in the head.  It must have
hurt, since he screamed out and grabbed his forehead.

	"No fair," he shouted, rubbing his head.  

	"We got you fair and square."  I told him.  "It's just too bad that
you can't recognize a trap when you see one."

	Dave was already moving off to hunt up the other two kids.  I walked
away from our first victims, and sought out my usual hiding place.  There
was this one tree that had good foliage to hide in, but not enough branches
to block a throw.  I climbed up and waited for Dave to do his job.

	Suddenly, I heard a kid scream from way off to my left.  That must 
have been Tom getting one of the two remaining kids.  Now there was only
one left.  This would be easy.  It was three against one.

	But seemingly an eternity went by while I waited.  The woods were
very quiet.  Not even a bird chirped.  A light breeze ruffled the leaves
surrounding me.  I thought about some of our other games.  During the last 
two summer's, our team had been virtually undefeated.  The only games we lost
were against kids much older than us.


	
