				The House of Pokum

					by
	
				Brian Scott Lingard



	In the rolling hills of Strafford county just west of Rochester, 
New Hampshire there was a house once owned by a man named Grover Pokum.  The 
house sat at the top of a hill, near the end of a gravel road in an area 
called Crown Point.  The origin of the area's name had long been forgotten.  
The house had become ramshackle and rundown.  The locals had avoided it for 
years, remembering tales of ghosts and strange occurrances.

	Recently, ownership of the house had fallen into the hands of Grover
Pokum's great-grandson, David Wellings.  He was the sole heir.  The Pokum
family line had died out during the previous generation with the unfortunate
death of the David's uncle, Edward Pokum, in a car accident.  The inheritance 
would have gone to David's mother, but she had died of breast cancer
only a year ago.  Thus David was the only surviving direct relative of poor
old Grover Pokum.  It was following his passing, just this past week, that 
prompted David's trip to New Hampshire to survey the property.

	On a clear, late summer day, it was David's car that disturbed the 
peaceful quiet, which hung over the Pokum estate like a cloud.  David stepped 
from his car and stretched after the long drive up from Boston.  He was 
severely disappointed by what his eyes saw.

	The house was clad in tattered tar paper and loose fitting, rotting
clapboards.  The two-story structure sat timeless and plain.  The bushes 
surrounding the house grew out of control, long overdue for a trim.  The front 
lawn was a bed of wildflowers.  Even the driveway had been mostly reclaimed by 
the meandering wild growth.

	David was startled when a hand unexpectedly reached out and touched  
him.  He didn't remember hearing any footsteps.  He whirled around to face a
strange man, dressed in a buckskin jacket.

	"You lookin' to buy this old place, mister?" asked the stranger.  The
man was older, with greying hair and greying beard.  He wore a raccoon 
skin cap.  Various tassles of leather hung from the man's jacket.  Around the 
man's waist was strapped a knife with an elaborately carved handle.

	David stammered out an answer, "No.  Not really.  Grover Pokum left 
me the property in his will.  You see, I'm his great-grandson, David.  David 
Wellings."  He held out his hand to the strange man.

	The stranger took David's hand without hesitation and shook it.  
"Pleased to meet you, David.  It was a shame to hear about Grover's passing, 
but then again, he hasn't lived here in over twenty years.  Went to some 
nursing home, I guess.  The place has gotten a bit run-down in his absence."

	David agreed and proceeded to look around some more.  The older man
followed.  David walked across the front lawn and around to the side yard, 
fighting his way through the tall grasses and other overgrowth.  The house
was indeed run-down.  Dollar signs clicked though his head, while he assessed
the repairs necessary to make the house saleable.  The more he looked, however,
the less likely the prospect of selling the property became.

	"So, how long have you lived around here, Mister... ?"  David asked,
stopping at a back corner of the house, beside a nearly distintegrated 
downspout.

	The strange man replied, "Just about my whole life.  I was actually
born in a house just down the road.  And built my own house on the same 
piece of land.  You can almost see it through the trees."  He pointed.  "Bought
a portion of my father's land, you see."  He paused, then added, "Sorry, forgot 
my manners.  My name's Jacob Peters."

	"It's good to meet you, Jacob."

	The old man interrupted him, "You can call me Jake."

	"Okay, Jake.  So, would you happen to know why no one ever bought this
house in the past twenty years?"  David continued into the yard behind the 
house.

	Jake followed him.  "Some folks around here claim the house is 
haunted.  But I never did believe those old wive's tales.  Though I have seen
some pretty strange things up here."

	"What kind of strange things?"  David stopped his survey again.

	Jake looked at the ground and said, "Oh, just shadows, really.  No one
I've ever talked to could actually explain what they think they saw.  I've 
never seen them myself.  I don't much believe in such things, anyhow."

	"Ghosts, huh?"  David thought for a moment, "Well, from the looks of
the place, it wouldn't surprise me a bit."  He continued back around to the 
front of the house.  "Feel like a tour, inside?" David asked, once back at 
the front door.

	"Sure thing.  Been a long time since I been in this old house," Jake
answered and followed David inside.

	It was dark in the main entryway.  Virtually no light penetrated the 
years of accumulated grime on the narrow windows on each side of the doorway.
Out of habit, David tried the nearest light switch.  Nothing happened.  Of
course, he thought.  The power probably hadn't been on in years.  He pulled a 
slim flashlight out of his coat pocket.  

	The thin beam of light revealed a similar air of decay and neglect that 
was present outside of the house.  A thick layer of dust blanketed everything.
It appeared as though nothing had been disturbed for a very long time.  A set 
of stairs climbed up directly in front of him, and a long hallway ventured 
towards the rear of the house besides the stairway.  His light could not 
penetrate very deep into the gloom.  A pair of doors flanked either side of 
the main entryway.

	"Let's see what's in here," David said as he opened the door to his 
left.  Dust swirled before their eyes, suddenly released.  As the dust cloud
settled, David's light shown upon various pieces of decrepit furniture.
Presumably, the room was in the same state as when David's great-grandfather
lived here.

	They entered the room, David alternately pointed his light at the 
walls and at the floor.  Several antique paintings hung from the walls, which
illustrated portraits of long forgotten personages.

	"Jeese, thought I would've been able to tell who these folks were," 
Jake announced, "but can't say that I can."

	"I'm not much help either."  David noticed a small bookcase filled with
dusty volumes, off to one side of the room.  A closer look revealed some
historical volumes, some old mariner fiction, and a few old ghost story 
collections.  He thought that these might actually be worth something, as 
long as they hadn't been eaten away to nothing.

	They exited through an open doorway into another room.  This was 
obviously the dining room, as evidenced by a marvelous china cabinet loaded
with dirty crystal and porcelain dinner wear.  Two simple corroded candle 
holders sat at each end of a long table.   At the center of the table sat
a bowl filled with some unidentifiable substance, possibly the remains of
some leftover fruit.

	After noting nothing of immediate interest, they continued through
a set of swinging doors into the kitchen.  The kitchen was surprisingly 
neat, except of course for the omnipresent layer of dust.  The counters 
were bare and there was nothing in the sink.  David randomly opened a few
of the upper cabinets and found nothing in them, save more dust.

	"Well, at least someone had the forethought to remove all the 
perishable items," David observed.

	"Aye, and all the cookware appears to have been removed as well,"
Jake said, as he opened a couple of the lower cabinets.

	A quick survey of the other half of the house revealed nothing else
of interest, so they proceeded upstairs.  The stairs creaked ominously
as they climbed, but none cracked.  More paintings of unknown persons lined
the walls of the stairway.  At the top of the stairs sat a pleasant little
antique table with a bizarre looking item sitting upon it.  The item was a
small carved statue.  Neither man could figure out what it was suppose to be.  
David bent down and blew the dust off of the statue.

	The carving had the appearance of something from a nightmare.  It had
a monstrous form, vaguely humanoid in shape, and had arms which ended in 
severe looking claws.  The head of the creature was less defined, but David
thought he could make out at least six pairs of eyes and a mouth which held
an impressive array of teeth.

	"Good God!" Jake exclaimed, "What in blazes is that thing?"

	"I imagine it's just some trinket Gramps found years ago.  I can't
imagine that his wife ever let him keep it in such a prominent place."  
David straightened, shrugged his shoulders, and motioned to one of the doors.  "Let's check in here."

	They entered the nearest bedroom and David noticed that Jake kept 
stealing glances back towards the hideous statue.

	"Forget about that thing.  It's nothing."

	This room was a bit brighter than those downstairs.  The windows had
somewhat less filth covering them.  It was a simple room, with only a small
bed set in the center of one wall, and had two small nightstands on either
side of the bed.  A single lamp sat on one of the nightstands.  A tiny writing 
desk sat against the wall near one of the two windows.  There was some paper 
on the desk.

	David moved over to the desk, picked up a couple of the papers, and
said, "Looks like letters.  Judging by the signature, it appears these were
written by my great-grandfather."  He scanned a few of the letters.  He 
saw strange words like Yog-Soggoth, Kadath, and Cthulhu.  "There's at least 
six different letters here."  

	"Who are they for?" Jake asked.

	"I'm not sure.  I think I'll just take them to look at later."  David 
carefully folded the letters and put them into his shirt pocket.

	They left the small bedroom and headed for the next room.  Once back 
in the hallway, Jake spoke, "Either my eyes are failing me, or that statue 
has moved!"

	"It couldn't have.  We're the only two in here.  Besides look at
the dust around it.  It's still undisturbed."

	Jake looked closer at the table.  The dust was indeed undisturbed.
Jake scratched his head.  "I must be imagining things."

	"Come on, let's check out this other room down here."

	The next room turned out to be the master bedroom.  The room was 
furnished with a large four-poster bed which had little carvings of crows at 
the top of each post.  A few dressers and couple of chests rounded out the 
furnishings.  Two more paintings hung on the walls.  But instead of being 
paintings of unknown people, they were paintings of unknown things, similar
to the statue out in the hallway.

	Looking down, David noticed some irregularities in the layers of dust
covering the floor.  "Would you look at this?  I wonder what caused these
marks."  He pointed at what appeared to be tracks underneath the dust.  As 
Jake leaned down to look at the tracks, they both heard a sound coming from
the hallway.  A shallow, grinding, scraping sound.  

	"What the hell is that?"  Jake jumped up, terror filled his eyes.

	"Calm down," David reassured him, "It's probably the wind, swinging
on the shutters or something."

	Jake was not reassured.  The scraping sound continued and it was 
getting louder.

	David started towards the door to see what was making the sound, but 
Jake grabbed his arm, holding him back.  "Don't go out there!  You don't know 
what it could be."

	"Get a hold of yourself," David said as he shook off the old man's 
grip.  "There's only one way to found out what it is."  He hurried to the 
door and peeked around the corner.  The blood drained from his face.  His
jaw fell slack.

	A skeleton was dragging itself along the floor towards the master
bedroom.  Bits of rotted flesh and tattered clothing clung in tenuous 
desperation to various bones.  A foul stench filled the air.  A hollow voice 
rasped, "Get out of my house!"

	David fell back into the room and slammed the door shut.  Stark terror
washed over him.  What the devil is going on here?  He slid to the floor, 
with his back against the door.  His mind whirled.

	"What is it?  What did you see?"  Jake knelt down next to David.

	"A... skeleton... moving... "  His words spilled out in an incoherent
ramble.

	"Slow down.  Take a breath."

	The scraping sound was now just outside the door.  Jake pulled David
away from the door and leaned him against the bed.  David was still babbling
about skeletons.  Jake shoved the nearest dresser in front of the door.  It 
took all his strength.  He wasn't used to this kind of effort.

	David began to settle down.  His words were clearer but still didn't 
make much sense.  "A skeleton dragging itself along the floor.  Said something 
about his house."

	"Are you trying to tell me that's a skeleton out there?"

	"Yes, we must get of here."

	There was a dull thud at the door.  The door jiggled, but did not
open.  A muffled voice said, "Get out!  Leave my house!"

	"Well, leaving could be a might difficult with our friend blocking 
the only door out of this room."




	

	

	
