
			Stellargrams From Pollux

				  by

			  Brian Scott Lingard



STELLARGRAM ID 129-NGTH-08224513
From:  Pollux Astrophysics Station

	Sorry it took so long for me to respond to your last message.  Our 
first month on the station proved to be far busier than any of us imagined.  

	The trip through the wormhole was uneventful.  I heard about the 
S.C. Belladrome from one of the other techs.  It gave me the shudders.  You 
would think that after twenty-five years of use, the Space Corps would have 
worked out the bugs by now.

	Pollux station is vast.  Far larger than the one at Alpha Centuri. 
Seems like I get lost everyday.  At least someone had the forethought to 
install locator maps in strategic places.  As long as I know how to find the 
lab and my quarters, I figure I'm doing okay.  

	The lab itself is well equipped.  The Science Corps spared no expense 
decking this place out.  We even have a Transience Quadputer.  I always thought 
that the Space Corps kept them for their battle sims.  I guess maybe they have 
relaxed a bit under the new treaty with the Betelgeusians.

	My quarters are okay, but they are a bit cramped.  I would have 
thought that given the size of the station, they would have built larger
accomodations for the research crew.  I try not to spend much time there 
anyway.  I spend most of time working.  It helps the days go by faster.

	Everyone here is very friendly and helpful.  There is a real teamwork 
atmosphere here.  But I must admit that I miss you, terribly.  I didn't think 
it would bother me all that much.  After all, this assignment is only for six 
months, then I'll be back home.  How are the kids?  I hope they aren't missing 
their mommy too much.  

	Well, I see that it's time for me to go check on the plasma 
stream collectors.  I'll write again as soon as I can.  Love you.

					#

STELLARGRAM ID 145-NGTH-09154513
From:  Pollux Astrophysics Station

	Hi honey!  Boy, things here just don't let up.  I keep telling myself
that I need to try to write at least every other week.  But so far I just can't
find the time.  On a good note, our experiments are going really well.  We may 
even finish this whole survey early.  Wouldn't that be great?  I'd be home
in time for the holidays.

	You won't believe what I am about to tell you.  The techs from the 
bio-survey team arrived a week ago.  And they have already discovered some 
lifeforms on one of the planets in the system.  So far they have classified 
over a dozen different species.  No one expected to find anything like that
here.  The whole station is buzzing.  It sure makes my work seem insignificant 
and boring by comparison.  Who needs yet another plasma stream survey.

	Some of the lifeforms look strange.  One of the bio guys described 
them to me.  Some were obviously some kind of vegetation, and others were
grazing animals which ate the vegetation.  But one species in particular
were very strange.  They were rather frail looking and easily frightened.
The bio-survey team never got a good look at them.  They always ran away
and hid.  If I learn more, I will pass it along.

	I'm sorry that I missed Tobya's birthday.  Please tell her that her
mommy loves her and that I'll be home soon.  Well, I really must go.  I will
definitely write again within a week.  Love you.  Bye.

					#

STELLARGRAM ID 746-NGTH-09304513
From:  Pollux Astrophysics Station

	Honey?  I'm sorry.  I really did want to write sooner than this, but
something happened only two days after my last letter.  The Space Corps placed 
a ban on personal transmissions until just yesterday.  You see, an unidentified 
ship suddenly appeared in the system.  It went into orbit around the planet 
where the bio-survey team found those lifeforms.  The Space Corps couldn't 
figure out who they were, so they placed the whole station under martial 
alert.  After repeated attempts at communication, they finally got a response.  
The station's linguists have been working overtime trying to translate it.  
So far, no luck.  

	The ship hasn't made any threatening moves, but everyone on the station
is nervous.  Personally, I'm not that worried.  The Space Corps always keeps
a fully loaded battle cruiser near a station this size.  You never know when
the Betelgeusians might decide to break the treaty, and come looking for 
trouble.

	So far, no one knows what the ship's crew looks like.  In fact, we're
not even sure that the ship has a crew.  As a precaution, the Space Corps 
pulled the bio-survey team off the planet's surface immediately after
the alien ship arrived.  So, no one from the surface got a look at them.

	The ship itself is rather strange looking.  It has an elongated shape, 
like a cylinder but tapered at both ends.  Hung beneath the main hull is a 
series of flat protrusions, kind of like wings or fins.  There is no obvious
engine or drive system.  The Space Corps guys are at a lost figuring out
how it moves.  They don't believe that the ship uses wormholes, since we 
didn't detect the usual space-time disturbance when it entered the system.  

	Hopefully, we'll learn more soon enough.  I'll keep you informed, 
honey.  Tell the kids that their mommy misses them.  Love you.

					#

STELLARGRAM ID 214-NGTH-10244513
From:  Pollux Astrophysics Station

	Hi honey!  Well, almost a month has gone by and the alien ship is 
still here.  The Space Corps had been keeping tabs on the aliens' activities
on the surface via their long range scanners.  At least now I can definitely
tell you that the ship does indeed have a crew.  We've detected several small 
craft landing on the planet's surface and we have observed their meetings with 
those frail creatures that I told you about last time.  It seems that the frail 
creatures on the planet's surface and the aliens from the ship are of the 
same species.  

	The bio-survey team has been able to piece together a better 
description of the aliens.  They borrowed a stealth combat ship from the
Space Corps and made some scans from orbit.  Physically the aliens are 
a bit shorter than us, but considerably thinner.  Their skin is pale pink 
in color and they are mostly hairless.  The most bizarre thing about them 
is that they only have two pairs of limbs.  How they can function with 
such a handicap is beyond me.  One of the bio guys showed me some of the 
photo scans, and these creatures look disgusting.  They are even uglier than
the Betelgeusians!  

	I overheard one of the Space Corps marines talking in the cafeteria
about a plan to attack the alien ship.  Though the aliens haven't done anything
threatening, I somehow feel it's not such a bad idea.  These creatures are
just too strange and alien to us.  Besides, we claimed this system first.
How were we to know that someone else held a claim?  They're not even part of
the Galactic Hegemony.  And everyone knows that claims made outside of the
Galactic Hegemony are null and void.


				THE END
	
