
			The Sound of Darkness

				by

			 Brian Scott Lingard



	It began as a low rumble, as if someone was steadily but softly 
drumming on a percusive instrument several yards in diameter.  It echoed 
between the hills, up and down Crawford Valley. 

	The people of Moss Glen were blissfully unaware of the sound 
-- everyone except for Dinty.  Dinty had first heard the sound one night 
when she couldn't sleep.  She had wandered out of her parents' house on 
Slater Road, and had found herself in the town square at two o'clock 
in the morning, listening to the sound.

	Tonight, Dinty was once again in the town square.  She had been 
there every night since she had first heard the sound.  The town square 
was typical of a small New England town, paved with red brick, dotted 
with maples and sycamores, lit by antique street lamps, and furnished with 
a few wrought iron park benches.  The square was deserted.  A soft breeze 
pushed a few leaves along the sidewalk.  Not even a single car drifted 
by.  Everyone was at home snug in their beds.  Dinty listened to the 
sound.  Drum.  Drum.  It was always the same.  That first night, she had 
had to strain to hear it at all.  Now it was as obvious to her as the sun 
on a clear day.

	On several nights, she had wandered about the town trying to 
detect where the sound came from.  The volume never changed, regardless 
of where she stood.  The sound was pervasive, but was only present at 
night.  She had tried telling her parents about it, but they just passed 
it off as the overactive imagination of a seventeen year old.  Her mother 
blamed it on all those horror videos that she constantly rented from 
the video store where she worked.

	Dinty wrapped her thin body tightly within her coat.  It was 
getting colder.  Fall was unquestionably in the air.  She carefully 
controlled her breathing, so it didn't interfere with her ability to 
judge the sound.  But she could not distinguish any change in the 
character of the sound.  It was the same dull throbbing.  The pitch was 
just above the threshold of feeling and hearing.  Somewhere above the 
bass sensation you felt in your chest at a loud rock concert.

	She had decided that tonight would be different.  She would 
record the sound, and then her parents would just have to believe her.  
She pulled the borrowed tape recorder from her pocket.  Her younger 
brother, Gim, would never miss it.  It had been sitting in his closet 
ever since he had gotten it for Christmas over two years ago.  He didn't 
have much use for anything these days, except for his motorcycle and 
his learner's permit.

	Dinty set the recorder on the park bench beside her and plugged 
in the microphone.  She double checked that a tape was loaded and set 
the recording gain to maximum.  After resting the microphone on the 
bench beside the unit, she pressed record.  The tiny cassette wheels 
turned.

	Carefully and quietly, Dinty stood up.  She walked some distance 
away from the park bench.  She didn't want her breathing to be recorded.  
Once out of a nearby street lamp's circle of light, Dinty was nearly 
invisible.  Her black clothes and black hair blended with the darkness 
of the night.  After about thirty minutes, she returned to the park bench 
and stopped the recorder.  She would listen to the tape once she had 
returned home.  Perhaps, she would wait until morning.  After lingering 
several minutes more, listening to the sound, she left for home.

				#

	Dinty awoke to the sound of her mother's voice, telling her that 
she was going to be late for school again, if she didn't get a move on.  
Reluctantly, Dinty rolled out of bed and shuffled into the bathroom.  
After showering and dressing, she wandered into the kitchen, carrying 
the tape recorder.  As usual, she was dressed in black.

	She set the recorder on the table and grabbed a bowl of cereal.  
After pouring in some milk, she sat at the table across from her father.

	"What are doing with Gim's recorder?" asked her mother.

	"Oh, Gimmie doesn't use it anyway.  I used it to tape that sound 
I told you guys about.  Maybe now you'll believe me."

	"I really wish you wouldn't go traipsing through town at 
night.  You never know what kind of crazies are lurking around.  You're 
gonna end up getting killed."

	Dinty looked at the ceiling and breathed hard.  "Mother, I'm old 
enough to take care of myself.  Besides, this town is so small, I doubt 
if anything like what happened in Beaumont is going to happen here."

	"I'm just worried about you, darling.  That's all."

	Her father echoed her mother's sentiment.  "Dinty, honey.  You 
should listen to your mother.  I have also been a little worried about 
you."

	Dinty ignored her parent's last statements and pressed play on 
the tape recorder.  At first she couldn't hear anything from the tape, 
and then she realized that the volume was too low.  After turning it up 
some, a definite throbbing noise could be heard coming from the machine.

	"That's it.  That's the sound I've been hearing," she exclaimed.

	Her father dropped his newspaper, leaned in close and listened. 
 
	"Most likely it's tape noise," he said confidently.  "Those old 
cassette recorders are pretty bad that way."  Her father went back to 
reading his newspaper.

	Dinty was still undaunted, "Father, listen again.  Can't you
hear the drumming?  The throbbing sound?"

	Her father tilted his ear towards the whirring machine and 
listened again, but was still unconvinced.  "Dinty, my dear, that sound 
could just as likely come from the tape motors themselves.  That's one 
of the reasons why CD players caught on."  He turned towards his wife 
and added, "Jasmine, we really ought to seek some help for our 
daughter.  Look at how tired she looks.  I really don't want to see 
her end up like her Uncle Eddy."

	"I don't think that'll happen, Bill, it's just her imagination.  
My brother was always a bit disturbed, even when we were kids.  But his 
experience in 'Nam, put him over the edge."  Jasmine paused, then said 
to Dinty, "I'm going to have to forbid you from leaving the house at 
night and forbid you from renting any more movies for awhile, until you 
get this fool notion out of your head."

	With that, Dinty cried, "You guys'll never understand.  Don't 
you see?  Something strange is happening.  And something terrible is 
coming.  I can just feel it!"  She stormed out of the kitchen and ran 
out of the house.  Her mother's calling faded behind her as she ran.

	She continued running down Slater Road and didn't stop until 
she reached the corner at Maple Street.  At the corner, she caught her 
breath.  As she rested her hands on her knees, bent over, she was 
vaguely aware that someone was watching her.  She wasn't sure where or 
why.  But she was certain that someone was watching her.  Dinty 
straightened and looked around slowly, looking at each house carefully, 
but didn't spot anyone peering through curtains.

	"Stop being paranoid," Dinty mumbled to herself.  She continued 
walking after turning down Maple.  She couldn't help thinking that her 
parents were deaf to the truth.  Especially her mother.  After all, she 
had played a cruel joke on Dinty when she named her.  Dinty Moore.  
Named after a stew.  God, she hated her name.  Her mother had let her 
flower-child upbringing sway her into bizarre naming schemes.  Dinty 
almost felt worse for her brother, Gimmie Moore.  But at least his name 
could be pronounced like 'Jim', she couldn't get away from her name.  
Dinty couldn't imagine what her father had seen in her mother.  Nor could 
she imagine how he could have ever let her get away with these names.

	But this sound.  Dinty couldn't shake the feeling that it did 
indeed portend something ominous.  She wasn't sure why.  Further 
reflection would have to wait until tonight, she thought as she neared 
the high school.  She entered through the middle doors and spent a 
restless day in class.

				#

	Later that evening, Dinty sat cross-legged on her bed, brushing 
a hand through her short cropped hair, waiting for night to fall.  At 
school, she had asked the few friends she had about the sound.  None had 
heard it.  It wasn't any different than the other times she had asked.  
They had stopped thinking that she was strange.  They had gotten used 
to her.  Her friend, Becky, had suggested that maybe she was hearing 
a freight train echoing down the valley.  Dinty said no.  There hadn't 
been any trains in Crawford Valley for over thirty years.  

	The valley was one of those places forgotten by the passage of 
time.  Sure, people had kept up with changes in technology -- everyone 
had televisions, stereos, home computers, ATM cards -- but the valley 
itself seemed perpetually stuck in the past.  People were comfortable.  
The pace of life was as it used to be.  No need to worry about the 
future here, since everything was likely to remain unchanged.

	Dinty felt it was time.  Time to find out, once and for all, 
where the sound emanated from.  She sneaked out of her room and went 
down stairs.  It was past eleven o'clock.  Dinty had heard her parents 
retreat to their bedroom about an hour before, so she knew it was safe 
to leave now.  She slinked through the kitchen and gently pushed open
the back door.  She closed it behind her, turned around and smacked 
right into her brother.

	"Mom's gonna be pissed if she finds you sneaking out again," 
said Gim.

	Dinty shimmied between her brother and the fence, then hissed, 
"Mind your own business.  I don't care what she thinks."  Dinty 
continued down the narrow space behind their house.

	"I, for one, think you're nuts to be skulking around, listening 
for some phantom sound.  Get a life."  Gim opened the door and looked 
back at his sister as she disappeared around the fence.  "Crazy," 
he mumbled and went inside.

	Dinty strolled down Slater, lost in thought.  People in this 
town better wake up.  Something is coming.  Something bad.  This town 
has been too complacent.  These people are going to find out a thing 
or two.  Things are going to change.  Time will no longer stand 
still.  This whole valley is going to be dragged, kicking and screaming, 
into the present.

	Dinty turned the corner at Maple, this time heading towards 
downtown.  She arrived at her usual park bench and sat, hands folded 
in front of her.  Once again, she established her vigil, waiting, 
hoping, for something to change.  At first the sound was as it had 
been.  Drumming.  Throbbing.  Low.  But Dinty sensed that the sound 
had changed.  A bit more intense perhaps.  Not so much louder, but 
more insistent.

	She was so preoccupied in her thoughts, that she hadn't noticed
an old man slipping up behind her.  He reached out and touched her 
shoulder.  Dinty screamed and leapt off the bench.

	"Sorry," he said, "I didn't mean to frighten you."  

	Dinty eyed him suspiciously.  The man appeared to be about eighty 
years old and had an extremely wrinkled face.  She had never seen anyone 
so aged.  Even her grandfather looked better, as he laid in his coffin 
a couple of years ago.  The old man standing before her was dressed in 
shabby, torn clothes, mostly grey and brown in color.  His hair was white, 
as was his beard.  Dinty decided that he must live on the street, given 
his smell.

	"I ... I just didn't expect anyone else," she stammered.

	"I know.  I have been watching you."  The old man paused for
several heartbeats before continuing, "I had to be sure that you were 
the one."

	"Wh-what do you mean?" Dinty was still frightened.  Maybe her 
mother was right to worry.  She didn't know whether to stay or flee.  
But some impulse seemed to be holding her there. 

	The strange man came around the bench and sat on the left 
side.  He motioned for her to sit beside him.

	She was still unsure of what to do.  The man didn't appear to 
be dangerous.  She was sure that she could outrun him in any event.  
She eventually sat on the bench, but as far away from him as the bench 
would allow.

	"There.  Relax.  I will not harm you."  He looked at her and 
then said, "You, no doubt, have been curious about the sound you've 
been hearing."  His voice was rough, but strangely comforting.

	He knew about the sound, how could that be?  No one else had 
admitted hearing it.  She couldn't help but be interested.  The old man 
had an aura about him.

	 The stranger continued, "The sound is a call.  A call to the 
chosen one.  For many years I have waited until the call began.  Only 
the chosen one can hear the sound.  And it is you.  I am sure of it."

	"Wait a minute," Dinty interrupted him, "How can you be so 
sure?  No one else hears this sound.  No one else believes me."

	"I believe you.  I have watched you.  You are the only person 
in the whole valley who could hear it.  I had thought a couple of others 
could.  But they were deaf.  They were false leads.  Not you.  You are 
the true chosen one.  Of that, I am sure."

	"What do you mean.  'I am the chosen one.'  Chosen for what?"

	"That, my dear, must remain a secret for now."  The ancient 
man stood and added, "I have something to show you.  To learn more, 
you must come with me."  That said, he walked quickly away from the 
bench, leaving Dinty behind, bewildered.

	"Wait," she called and chased after him.  Surprisingly, the 
old guy moved far too quickly for someone his age.  "Slow down."

	"We must hurry.  Time is short."  The old man did not slow 
his pace.  If anything, he quickened it.

	Dinty struggled to keep up.  Despite her fears and her better 
judgement, she was irresistibly drawn to the man.  Why me, she 
thought.  What was so special about me?  I'm just like every other 
kid my age.  Well, okay, so I have a funny name, but that's nothing too 
unusual.  Her mind was a blur.  Dinty had no idea what the old man could 
possibly mean by 'chosen one.'  Chosen for greatness, chosen for 
sacrifice, who could say.  She probably should run home, right now.  
Run home to her mother.  But she couldn't.  Her fate seemed locked to 
this strange old man.

	The old man turned into the alley between the hardware store 
and Moss Glen's only tavern.  She chased after him.  It was dark in 
the alley.  Very dark.   The gloom swallowed the glow from the street 
lamps in one giant gulp.  Dinty could just make out the shadow of the 
old man, rushing along in front of her.  At the end of the alley, the 
man stopped and fiddled with a padlock on a plywood door.  Dinty stepped 
up behind him, breathless.

	"What ... is ... this ... place," she asked between breaths.

	"My home," the old man replied.  The lock popped open.  He swung 
the door into the alley and stepped inside.  A light switch clicked.  
Bright light suddenly escaped from the opening.  Dinty could see a 
steep stairway, going down.

	"Please hurry."  The man pointed down the stairs.  

	Dinty obliged.  She passed the old man in the entry and 
cautiously stepped downward.  The stairs seemed to go on forever.  The 
light from the top of the stairs dimmed and then was replaced by a glow 
from the room below. 
 
	The old man secured the door at the top of the stairs, sliding 
a bar across.  Dinty's tension increased.  She had second thoughts 
about having followed the old man.

	The stairs emptied into a large room, stuffed with the debris 
of the world.  Books laid in piles everywhere. Miscellaneous scraps of 
technology covered tables and the floor.  Radios, computers, televisions, 
antique furniture, paintings, children's toys were all among the 
clutter.  The identities of many of the objects could only be guessed 
at.  Dinty thought she could see the ends of several swords jutting out 
from beneath a pile of oriental carpets.  Pistols of varying descriptions 
hung from nails on the wall.  A couple of rifles leaned between wall 
studs.  Scraps of food laid hidden amongst crumpled newspapers and on 
top of paper plates.  The room was surprisingly well lit, despite the 
otherwise dingy appearance.

	The old man bounded off the last stair.  He went over to a pile 
of junk and began pushing things out of the way.  A chair emerged.

	"Please sit down," he said, pointing to the chair.

	"What is all this stuff," asked Dinty as she sat, still nervous.

	"Oh, just a few things I picked up over the years."  The old man 
moved to another pile of junk and felt around for something.  After few 
moments, his hands reappeared, holding a book.  He handed the book to 
Dinty.

	Dinty took the book and stared at the cover.  The book was bound 
in dark leather and was covered in filth.  She brushed away the thick 
layers of dust.  Beneath the dust was an intricate engraving.  The 
engraving was that of a face, staring back at Dinty.  The face looked 
familiar.  Could it be a younger version of the old man's face?  She 
couldn't tell.  She carefully opened the book.  Inside, there were many 
drawings of strange, terrible things.  Demon looking things.  Things with 
horns.  Things that were horrible to look upon.  Other drawings showed 
scenes from what must be hell, or so Dinty thought.  People being 
tortured.  Body parts severed and hung on poles.  Small bizarre-looking 
creatures which consumed unidentifiable flesh.

	Dinty slammed the book shut.  She was scared.  Who the hell is 
this guy?  Why is he showing me this?  Does he thrive on inducing fear 
before he attacks his victims?  What did she get herself into?

	"Do not fret, my child," said the old man as he reached out for 
the book.  "What I have shown you, is what could happen to this 
valley.  But it need not."  He placed the book on the table nearest 
him and continued, "For a great many years, an evil force has been trying 
to enter the world through a portal within this valley.  Why this valley, 
and not another?   I do not know.  The sound you have heard is that of 
this evil force knocking at the bounds which hold the portal shut.  
Only I, the keeper of the portal, have been able to keep this force 
out.   But, alas, I am growing weak in my old age, and fear that I will 
not be able to keep it out much longer."

	"I don't understand.  What does this have to do with me?"

	"There needs to be a replacement for the keeper of the
portal.  A younger, stronger replacement.  That, my dear, is you."

	"Me?  Why me?"  Dinty grew restless and squirmed in her 
chair.

	"Because only you heard the sound of darkness.  Most people 
see the world through clouded vision.  But you see the world as it 
really is.  You have the acuity to become the keeper.  When the keeper 
grows weak, the forces of evil sense it and begin trying to enter our 
world.  If a replacement is not found, all the world will be lost."  

	Suddenly, the old man flinched in pain.  He grabbed his chest, 
and fell to his knees on the floor.  As if on cue, the sound which had 
plagued Dinty grew louder.  She could actually hear it from within the 
building.

	"What's going on?  Are you okay?" she said worriedly, getting 
up to help the old man as best she could.  "Should I go for help?"

	"NO!" he rasped, "I must have your answer!"

	Dinty knelt beside the old man, confused.

	Once his pain had subsided, he continued, "There is one thing, 
however.  If you agree to become the keeper, you must never leave 
Crawford Valley, not even for a moment.  It is your life force which 
keeps the forces of evil at bay. Also, you must not ever tell anyone 
about what you know.  They probably wouldn't believe you anyway.  They 
might even try to lock you up.  You must decide now!"

	Dinty couldn't believe what she was hearing.  Me, become the 
keeper of some portal to hell?  This can't be happening.  She wished 
that she had more time to think.  But the look on the old man's face 
was that of death, fast approaching.  

	More spasms of pain racked the poor old man.  The sound had now 
grown to a deafening level.  Dinty could not imagine that only she, 
and apparently this old man, could hear it.  It was unbelievably loud.  
Throbbing, pounding.  Dinty clapped her hands over her ears, but it 
was useless.  The sound somehow still got through.

	Would living in Moss Glen for the rest of her life be so bad?  
Always staying within Crawford Valley?  She had never been anywhere else 
and never did have much desire for travel.  She liked reading and 
watching scary movies.  That was enough.  She had always figured that 
she would get married, find some boring job in the valley after her 
graduation, and live happily.  If simply staying alive within the 
confines of the valley was all that was called for, she could handle 
that.

	"If I say yes, what must I do?" she whispered into the old 
man's ear.

	"Nothing really.  It is a simple process.  But becoming the 
keeper will have its price.  You will live much longer than the people 
around you."

	"What do you mean?"

	"I was born just before the Civil War."

	Dinty was shocked.  "That means ... you're at least a hundred 
and ninety years old."

	"A hundred and ninety-five, to be exact.  You will outlive 
your spouse if you ever choose to marry.  My wife died over a hundred 
years ago.  Lovely woman.  I became the keeper when I was about 
twenty-five years old, when I heard the call.  The one before me had 
been the keeper for nearly two hundred and twenty years.  Before that, 
I know nothing."  The old man gripped his chest again and croaked, 
"Please.  You must hurry."

	Dinty thought.  Would out-living everyone that she knew be 
such a bad price, for safeguarding the world?  Living that long would 
allow me to see what the future held for our world.  

	"I'll do it," she announced.

	"Give me your hands.  Quickly!"

	Dinty stretched out her hands.  The old man clasped them in 
his own and shut his eyes.  Tears streamed down his face.  The drumming 
sound pounded in Dinty's ears.  Without warning, pain shot up her 
arms.  She tried to pull away, but the old man held her firm.  An 
electric shock flowed through her entire body.  She convulsed.  Her 
arms shook.  She screamed.

	Then as quickly as the pain began, it vanished.  The old man 
let go of her hands.  He slumped down on the floor, his mouth agape, 
his eyes open.  He was dead.  His flesh shriveled.

	Silence.  Dinty almost didn't notice that the pounding had 
stopped.  The sound was gone.

	Dinty caught a glimpse of the book that the old man had shown
her previously.  Strangely, the cover seemed different.  She picked it 
up.  Staring back at her now was an engraving of her own face.  She 
dropped the book.  How could this be?  This book must be linked to 
the keeper in some way.  The old man had neglected to mention that.  
Dinty decided that she should at least take the book with her when 
she left.

	Dinty pawed through some of the other things the old man had 
collected throughout his long life.  She found few things of 
interest.  She did, however, take the time to find the old man's key 
to the padlock.  She hurried up the stairs and locked the door behind 
her once back in the alley.  Maybe, she would come back later in the 
day.  Maybe not.

	The alley was still dark, but once Dinty was back on the main 
street, she could see the earliest hints of dawn approaching.  She 
raced home, sneaking back into the house, unheard.  She climbed into 
bed, clutching the strange book, thinking about what had occurred. 
She was now the keeper of the portal to hell.  She could live with 
that.  A suitably strange fate for a suitably strange-named 
person.  She fell asleep, exhausted.

	Outside, the night slowly gave way to day.  A quiet dawn 
replaced a quiet night.  The nights in Moss Glen, and in all of 
Crawford Valley, had once again become silent.  For now.


				THE END


Copyright 1995, Brian S. Lingard, All Rights Reserved.
