				Notes on Vesta
				--------------


Titles
------
	"Transie!"		favored so far
	"Swift Justice"
	"Lost Off Vesta"
	"Adrift Near Vesta"


Setting
-------

Approximately 50 to 100 years in the future, man has begun to colonize and
mine the asteroids within our solar system.  Most of the early colonies
began on the larger asteroids like Ceres, Vesta, etc.  But eventually many
asteroids, large and small, had been explored by scout ships and the most 
promising ones had been claimed by large mining conglomerates.  These 
conglomerates ran each of their facilities as semi-independant nation-states.
The processed materials are shipped to Mars for further processing on Deimos 
and Phobos, before being shipped to Earth/Luna.  Several of the mining 
conglomerates were controlled/owned by industrial companies on Mars.

It soon became apparent that people's behavior mirrored that on Earth.  Crime
remained a problem.  The conglomerates didn't want to have to maintain jails
at each of their facilities.  So a few of the "tapped-out" asteroids were 
converted into penal colonies where prisoners were forced to perform mining
labor while serving their sentences.  Though incidents of prisoner abuse
were small, some examples had been reported.

Several freelance "transport" agents sprang up to portage sentenced criminals 
from the mining colonies to the penal colonies.  Most of the people who worked
as transport agents had to supply their own ship, usually a cheap, unreliable,
discarded mining scout.  These ships usually only require a crew of one, but 
can actually carry 3 to 4 people on board total.  Most could only travel about 
100,000 km per day.  The prisoners are usually tranquilized for the duration 
of the trip.

Though weapons on the mining colonies had been banned years ago, a thriving 
black market exists selling cheap projectile weapons, etc.  Knives have never 
been banned.  There have been many incidents where a projectile weapon pierced 
the hull of a ship or bulkhead and caused many deaths due to asphyxiation.  There are stiff sentences for weapons violations.


Ceres

The largest of the asteroids and the first colony to be established some fifty
years ago.  Tomac Industries controls Ceres and several other asteroids, making 
it the richest mining conglomerate in the belts.  They are constantly trying
to ursurp the mining rights of other companies.  They have been known to employ
both legal and illegal means to get what they want.


Vesta

Vesta was converted into a penal colony some thirty years ago, after most
of the richest ores had been depleted.  Vesta was by far the largest of the 
penal asteroids.  With such a large prisoner population and the amount
of remaining ores, Vesta still turned a tidy profit for its operators.  Vesta
had earned a reputation for being the best place to secure the more serious 
offenders.  Smaller penal colonies usually handled the less-violent prisoners.


Scout Ship

The typical scout ship consists of one main oblong shaped hull, which has 
three main compartments inside.  The forward compartment is the ship's
"bridge" or control section, usually allowing room for only one or two 
individuals.  The middle compartment is normally used as living/sleeping 
space by a prospector.  When used by transies, the middle section is outfitted 
with additional sleep tubes for use in storing the prisoners during the 
transports.  The aft section houses the Kepler drive.  There is little 
spare room around the drive housing.  

Kepler drives were once considered state of the art.  They provided considerable
thrust and didn't require much maintenance.  But after twenty or thirty 
years of service they had begun to fail.  About five years ago, newer ship 
drives have been developed making them obsolete.  Repair parts have become
increasingly difficult to obtain.  The newer drives cannot be retro-fitted 
into the older ships.



Characters
----------

Samuel Buckholt

Samuel has been a freelance transport agent ("transie") for the last twenty 
years (he is in his late forties).  He was born on Earth, but moved to the 
Mars colony fairly young.  He originally wanted to be a prospector, but he 
wasn't a natural born belter, so he couldn't get licensed and couldn't get 
any financing.  The belters take care of their own first.  He always been 
bitter about this.

Now he has almost paid-off his scout ship, the Swift Justice, as he has 
christined it, (only one more payment), and is looking forward to finally 
getting his prospecting career off the ground.  His ship may need some 
upgrading, since it has become noticeably more unreliable of late.

He was married once, back on Mars, but had to get divorced after only three 
years, since she didn't want to leave Mars.  He has been reluctant to get 
involved with other women ever since.

Though they are illegal, he does own a small projectile weapon for his own
protection.  In all his years of being a transie, he has never had to use
it.  He also has never had a prisoner escape.  


Tyra Jackson

A 42 year old black male, who was born a belter and has worked off and on at 
various mining colonies, but has always seeked the easy way out.  He has 
often been in trouble with the law, and has most recently was convicted
of murdering another man over a game of blackjack.  He has never appreciated 
the advantages he has had by being a natural born belter, and he still shares 
in the prejudice against non-belters.  He was sentenced to 20 years to life 
on a penal asteroid.


Virginia Lopez

A 28 year old white woman (partly hispanic), who was also born a belter 
and was convicted of possession of a projectile weapon and sentenced to 
10 years.  She had bought the weapon originally to protect herself against 
her jealous boyfriend.  He died a few months ago in a mining accident.  She 
forgot she had the weapon until someone found it and turned her in for the 
reward money.  She has a broken arm from a fight while in lockup.


Huang Dwen

A 20 year old newcomer to the belts, born on Mars, who, on the surface (see 
Backplot), seems to have gotten caught in a company sting operation looking 
for employees who were selling portions of raw titanium ore to pirate 
smelters.  He didn't even know that what he had been told to do was against 
company policies.  They sentenced him to three years, but he probably will 
only end up serving one year.

He had come to the belts seeking wealth and had dreams of being a prospector
like his grandfather.  His naivete was his biggest downfall.  Samuel can't 
help but to have sympathy for him.



Backplot
--------

Huang Dwen is actually the nephew of Lee Wong, the owner of one of the 
larger mining conglomerates based on Mars.  Huang was sent in to infiltrate
Tomac Industries in an effort to learn of newly discovered asteroids so that
Wong's company could usurp Tomac's claims.  But Huang got caught in the 
sting operation by mistake (or maybe not).  It's possible that Tomac found
out who Huang was and framed him just to get rid of him.  Understandably
Wong wants him freed, and learns of when and how Huang will be transported
to the penal colony.  Wong hires a team to intercept Samuel's ship and free
Huang.


Plot
----

Samuel has picked up his latest load of prisoners from Ceres and is about 
three-quarters of the way to Vesta to drop off Tyra Jackson.  He would then
proceed to Charlies Rock to drop off the other two prisoners.

While performing normal scans, something hits the ships or the ship hits
something.  The ship's drive is disabled and communications are knocked out.

Luckily he has the repair parts on board, however it will take two people to
make the repair while EVA'ing.  He reluctantly revives his prisoners to 
get two of them to make the repair while he and the other one observes.
Virginia must remain on board due to her broken arm.

During the repair, Huang loses his grip and drifts out into space.  Tyra
is powerless to help the poor lad.  The surviving prisoners blame Samuel for 
Huang's death.  

Samuel is forced into having to trust Virginia, while he and Tyra EVA to 
finish the repair job.  Once back inside, Tyra continues to harass Samuel
about Huang's death.  They eventually struggle and fight.  Samuel pulls
his weapon and fires three shots.  Two shots hit and kill Tyra, but the 
third pierced the hull of the ship and they will slowly loose oxygen.

Samuel and Virginia must don EVA suits and proceed to Vesta hoping to get 
there before the air runs out.

They make it only after a Vesta patrol ship picks up their ship's automated 
distress call.  They are both nearly dead, but can recover.
