
 Welcome to the

 [NIGHT TERRORS MAGAZINE]
 GUIDELINES PAGE FOR WRITERS AND ARTISTS

D. E. Davidson, Editor/Publisher, 1202 West Market Street, Orrville, Ohio
44667-1710. I am accepting submissions for a new Supernatural/Horror/Occult,
full sized, saddle stapled, quarterly with a two color cover. Each issue will
contain 48 pages or more of stories and illustrations in black and white. I am
buying First North American Serial Rights (No reprints except on request) for
stories 2,000 to 5000 (none shorter, query for longer) words. Publication
copyrighted. All rights revert to the author after publication. Please send NO
MULTIPLE SUBMISSIONS. Please send NO E-MAIL SUBMISSIONS without prior approval.
Absolutely no attached files. Simultaneous submissions are okay, but you must
inform me that the story is currently submitted elsewhere.

ART

I need art to 8.5 X 11 inches. I pay $5 plus contributor's copy for story
illustrations and $25 for cover art. I also offer additional incentives such as
reduced rates and ad space. Don't send originals through the mail. I would like
to keep art samples on file for future reference.

SHORT STORY NITTY

All submissions must be typed in standard manuscript format. If you don't know
what that means, check "The Writer's Digest Guide to Manuscript Formats" by
Buchman & Groves, WRITER'S DIGEST BOOKS. Please indicate the rights you are
offering and the word count in the upper right hand corner of the title page.
Each submission must contain a cover letter (not a cover note, if you don't
spend time with me I don't spend time with you), a list of publication credits
and an SASE for return of work or a #10 SASE for my reply. If you send a
disposable copy of the manuscript, I can reply via e-mail. Please state if your
work is available on disk and indicate your computer make and the word
processor used. Don't send a disk. I pay from 1/8 to 3 cents per word with a
minimum of $5 plus contributor's copy and a maximum of $75 plus contributor's
copy. I also offer contributors a reduced rate for additional copies. I will
accept to three stories per issue from three well known professional writers.
The remaining space is for published or unpublished writers seeking
recognition. Payment is made on publication and signed contracts are required
for all accepted work.

SHORT STORY GRITTY

I am looking for stories well written enough to fit a mainstream publication
except for the dark atmosphere and the terror factor (if you don't know what I
mean read some or all of the stories on my SUGGESTED READING list). I want
stories saturated with dark mood and atmosphere, stories which will make the
reader identify with the character and will get into the reader's head and
haunt him/her during the night. I want stories that make the reader turn on the
light at the head of the stair before climbing them for bed at night. Scare me,
and give me interesting, believable characters, and a beginning, middle and end
to the story and you will get an offer. My favorite magazines are CEMETERY
DANCE, DEATHREALM, and TERMINAL FRIGHT, the all but departed INTO THE DARKNESS,
and the recently departed PULPHOUSE. If you send me a story with style and
content that would or would have fit one of these magazines it will have a good
chance of being accepted. I WILL NOT ACCEPT stories involving sexual mutilation
or sex with children. NOTE: I have a bias against horror stories written in the
first person. If you send one, it will have to have a plot that will make it
realistic. DON'T send any stories told by a corpse, ghost, zombie or which
involve in whole or in large part the thoughts of one person about his/her
past. This includes diary/journal stories.

SAMPLE ISSUES AND SUBSCRIPTIONS AT A DISCOUNT

