
							Brian Lingard
							9 Wadsworth Rd
							Shrewsbury, MA, 01545
							USA



							November 9, 1995


Markus Altmann
Gautinger Str. 14a
82152 Krailling
Germany



Hallo Markus,


Guten tag!!  I am doing well.  Work has been going pretty well.  We have been 
very busy lately.  We are getting nearer to our customer acceptance testing.  
In case you have forgotten, I have been working on graphical user interface 
software for part of an air traffic control system for Hong Kong.  I have 
learned alot in the past year about GUI design, Unix systems, and formal 
software development in general.  

It was good to hear that you found a job.  Making money is always good.  Yes,
I picked up my degree.  It hasn't done me much good yet.  My company doesn't
reward for getting the master's.  I guess they think that paying for it is
enough.  The real bummer is that now because of having the degree and because 
of the pay freeze that we have had for the past year, I am now underpaid by a 
significant amount.  So I have been seriously thinking about getting a new
job.  In fact, we have had many people leave the company in recent months.
And many have gotten 20 to 30 percent pay increases.  

Well, I do have some news.  I am going to be a father.  My wife, Lori, is
due on April 3rd.  We recently had an ultrasound appointment and it was
cool.  We could see the baby's head, arms, legs, and heart beating.  Neat.
I must admit that though I am happy for us, it is a bit daunting the prospect
of bringing a new life into the world.  We shall see.

Another recent development is that I, along with a few friends, have started
a fiction writing group.  We get together once a week to talk about writing
and share what we have written with each other.  We try to critique each 
other's writings.  So far the group has been very helpful.  It has finally
gotten me interested in writing again.  Currently, I am working on three
different short stories.  One story is a sword and sorcery fantasy, another
is a dark fantasy, almost horror, and the third is a hard science fiction
story.  Do you read any science fiction, fantasy, or horror?  I have been
a fan for many years.  I mainly read science fiction, but I do enjoy a well
written fantasy tale.  Hopefully, I may get something published.  I have
no delusions of grandeur.  I just think it would be fun to get a story 
into print and see my name in a magazine.  If it turns into something more,
that would be fine too.  Let me know what you like to read for fun.  If you
happen to know about any cool magazines available in Germany, I would be
interested in hearing about them.



Mine Deutsch ist nicht gut.  I am afraid that I have not had much time to think
about German.  Between work, the writing group, and my drawing class, I have
been fairly busy.  Oh, I almost forgot.  I am taking a class in lead pencil
drawing this fall.  It is a beginner's class, but it is exactly what I need.
I used to draw and paint some, many years ago, but I have forgotten much
of what I knew.  So far, the class has been very interesting.  I seem to be
doing pretty well.  I plan on taking at least another class in drawing or
maybe I will try a painting class.  Once the baby is born, I may not be able 
to take any art classes for a while.  So I better take them now.

I will also be buying a computer soon.  Since I no longer have to save the 
money for another graduate class, I have some money I can put towards 
buying a PC.  I plan on getting a Pentium 90 Mhz, with it being fully loaded 
for multimedia.  I already have an Amiga computer, but ever since Commodore
went bankrupt, I have not had much faith in the machine any more, even though
the company was bought by the German computer company, Escom.  Escom has said 
that they will begin manufacturing the machines again, but I am afraid it is 
a little too late.  There are no Amiga dealers left in the USA, except for mail 
order.  The two Amiga shops that were in Massachusetts, have either gone out of 
business, or have switched to selling PC clones.  Even after I get the PC, 
however, I will keep the Amiga, because it is still a useful little machine, 
and I already have some good software for it.  One of my biggest motivations
for getting a PC, is to install and run Linux on it.  Linux, in case you 
did't know, is a Unix clone designed to run on PC platforms.  It also supports
and runs the X-window system.  I plan on using it to learn more about 
programming for Unix and X-windows.

I wish to apologize for taking so long to write back.  I have no excuse.  
Lately, I find it fairly easy to keep up with sending e-mail to people, but
real letters are difficult for me.  As it is, I am actually writing this at 
work.  Things are a bit slow at the moment.  I have been waiting for some
instructions on a particular software fix from someone.  WPI finally deleted
most of my school computer accounts.  So now my only access to the Internet
is through work.  Once I buy the PC, I will be getting connected via one of 
the local service providers.  So for now my e-mail address is still

	lingard@iatc.ed.ray.com

Well, take care and Auf Weidersehen.


						Brian
