							Brian Lingard
							9 Wadsworth Rd
							Shrewsbury, MA, 01545
							USA


							May 8, 1996


Markus Altmann
Gautinger Str. 14a
82152 Krailling
Germany



Hallo Markus,


Guten tag!!  I'm sorry to take so long to respond to your last letter.  But
the days and weeks go by, and before you know it, several months.  Anyhow,
I have several things to catch you up on...

First, this past winter was unbelievable.  We break several records for 
highest recorded snowfall.  Just in my area alone we got over 96 inches.
I was glad that this was the year that I decided to buy a four-wheel drive
vehicle.  We got a Ford Explorer (I'm not sure if you'd be familiar with
them or not), and it has proven to be a great investment.  It handled
great in the snow.  My wife has to drive to Boston (almost an hour away)
and really made her commute doable on those really bad snow storm days.

On April 6th, at 2:24 AM, Spencer Douglas Lingard was born to Lori and 
Brian Lingard.  He weighed 8 lbs 5.5 oz. and was 20 3/4 inches in length.
He also had plenty of hair (and still has it).  Both mother and baby have
been doing fine.  Though my wife, Lori, did have some complications during
the delivery.  She was borderline toximic (high blood pressure, etc.) and
never progressed beyond 3 centimeters dilated.  So Spencer was born via 
a c-section.  Lori's incision is healing well, and she is fully recovered,
and up and about.  Spencer has been gaining weight incredibly fast, almost
2 lbs in seventeen days!  And he has grown almost 2 inches already.

So suddenly I find that I have much less free time to do things.  I guess
I'll have to give up writing any technical papers for now.  And my writing
of stories has also stopped for now.  Hopefully, I'll be able to squeeze
out a little time here and there.  But I wouldn't trade it for anything.
Having a son is a wonderful experience.  It does alot to change your 
perspective on things.  I'm sure that the future will hold many great
and memorable happenings.

Well, I also finally bought a PC.  I got a 133 Mhz Pentium, with 16 meg 
ram, 1.6 gig HD, 15 inch monitor, 4x cdrom, sound card, etc.  It came with 
Windows 95 installed, but no other software.  So I bought MS Office Pro, 
and MS Publisher at a significant savings, since I got everything at a
computer show.  Since buying it back in February, I have picked up several
cool computer games, like Doom, Heretic, Myst, Journeyman Project, and demo 
versions of other games.  I have become quite addicted to playing the Doom 
games.  They are alot of fun, if a bit bloody and violent.  I enjoy working 
out the puzzles.  And yes I did buy Linux, but haven't installed it yet 
(I want to use a second hard drive and don't the cash for it yet).


								page 2

Work at Raytheon has been okay.  The pay freeze finally ended, but guess 
what?  They handed out raises based on ranking and such, and I ended up with 
a low ranking, and didn't get a raise.  You see, I recently transferred 
from a hardware department into a software department, and when they did 
the rankings, I was still very new.  Though I've been with the company for a 
number of years, it didn't matter.  I was competing against people with over 
ten years of software experience and just as many years specifically in air 
traffic control software.  So, I got shafted.

Thus I am not happy about the situation, and I am beginning to look for a new 
job.  Luckily, I have many friends who have left Raytheon over the last several 
years that work at a wide variety of companies in the area.  So finding out 
about different jobs shouldn't be all that difficult.  Actually I have one 
friend at US Robotics (they make both consumer modems and high speed internet 
modems) who has already turned in my resume for consideration on a number of 
job openings.  Hopefully, I'll get called in for an interview soon.

The other aspect to all this is that most people who have left Raytheon 
recently have been getting big salary increases (like 20 to 40 percent!!).  
That would come in handy now that I have an additional mouth to feed.  And 
although Lori is planning on returning to work in a few months, she is only 
planning on returning to work part-time, so we can avoid having to put Spencer 
into day care (which can be very expensive).  Besides, I've been at Raytheon 
for almost eleven years now, and I think it's time for a change...

Have you gotten your driving license yet?  I was surprised at how much 
it costs in Germany to get the license.  How do you get around?  By bus?
Or by train?  Walking?

Has anyone else written to you yet?  I can understand how people sometimes
can't (or won't) find the time to write letters.  I certainly find it easier
to keep in touch with people via email.  But I do enjoy writing letters, it
makes good practice for putting your thoughts on paper (or CRT screen, as the
case may be).  I read somewhere that if you want to be a writer, you must
practice writing as much as possible, in any form.  There is no better way
to learn the craft of putting words together into coherent sentences than
just to do it.  And do it often.  

That's enough writing practice for now.  Take care and Auf Weidersehen.


							Brian






P.S.  	Well, I still haven't gotten an Internet Service Provider, so for 
	now my email address is still:

		lingard@res.ray.com

