From: tomh@metrics.com (Tom Haapanen)
Reply-To: tomh@metrics.com
Newsgroups: comp.os.ms-windows.pre-release,comp.os.ms-windows.win95.setup,comp.os.ms-windows.win95.misc,comp.os.ms-windows.apps.winsock.mail,comp.os.ms-windows.apps.winsock.news,comp.os.ms-windows.apps.winsock.misc
Followup-To: poster
Subject: INFO: A guide to the Windows newsgroups [FAQ]
Date: Mon, 22 Jan 1996 05:01:58 GMT
Organization: Software Metrics Inc.
Message-ID: <Guide.w4-96-01-22@metrics.com>

Archive-name: ms-windows/newsgrp.guide
Last-modified: 1996-01-01


This is a regularly scheduled weekly posting, which explains the purpose
of the usenet newsgroups for Microsoft Windows.  Please follow these
guidelines when posting your articles, and make life easier for all of 
us.

NOTE: Binary files (whether programs, bitmaps or others) are not to be
      posted to any of the groups listed below, with the exception of
      comp.binaries.ms-windows.


These are the current Windows newsgroups:

SETUP AND INSTALLATION -- WINDOWS 95 AND WINDOWS 3.x:
    comp.os.ms-windows.setup.win3x
	    Questions and problems with setting up and configuring Windows 3.x
    comp.os.ms-windows.setup.win95
	    Questions and problems with setting up and configuring Windows 95

GENERAL -- WINDOWS 95 AND WINDOWS 3.x:
    comp.os.ms-windows.advocacy    
	    Comparisons, discussion and arguments about Windows 3.x and Windows
	    95 vs other operating systems.
    comp.os.ms-windows.announce   
	    MODERATED.  Announcements and news about Windows applications,
	    drivers, events etc.
    comp.os.ms-windows.pre-release
	    Discussion about unreleased and future versions of Windows
    comp.os.ms-windows.video      
	    Video display cards, drivers and monitors for use with Windows
    comp.os.ms-windows.misc       
	    All other Windows 3.x discussions (except advocacy with other
	    operating systems) not covered by other specific newsgroups.
    comp.os.ms-windows.win95.misc
	    All other Windows 95 discussions (except advocacy with other
	    operating systems) not covered by other specific newsgroups.

GENERAL -- WINDOWS NT-SPECIFIC:
    comp.os.ms-windows.nt.admin.networking
	    Windows NT network administration, management and security issues
    comp.os.ms-windows.nt.admin.misc       
	    Windows NT administration issues, except for networking
    comp.os.ms-windows.nt.advocacy         
	    Comparisons and arguments about Windows NT vs other OSs
    comp.os.ms-windows.nt.announce         
	    MODERATED.  Announcements and news about Windows NT applications,
	    drivers, events etc.
    comp.os.ms-windows.nt.pre-release      
	    Discussion about unreleased and future versions of Windows NT
    comp.os.ms-windows.nt.setup.hardware   
	    Setting up and configuring hardware for Windows NT 
    comp.os.ms-windows.nt.setup.misc       
	    Setting up and configuring Windows NT, except hardware issues
    comp.os.ms-windows.nt.misc             
	    All other Windows NT-specific discussions except programming and
	    advocacy

APPLICATION SOFTWARE -- WINDOWS 3.x, 95 AND NT:
    comp.os.ms-windows.apps.comm         
	    Communications and fax applications
    comp.os.ms-windows.apps.financial    
	    Financial applications
    comp.os.ms-windows.apps.utilities.win3x
	    Utilities, desktops and accessories for Windows 3.x
    comp.os.ms-windows.apps.utilities.win95
	    Utilities, desktops and accessories for Windows 95
    comp.os.ms-windows.apps.word-proc    
	    Word processing and desktop publishing
    comp.os.ms-windows.apps.misc         
	    Miscellaneous Windows 3.x, 95 & NT applications

WINSOCK-BASED TCP/IP APPLICATION SOFTWARE -- WINDOWS 3.x, 95 AND NT:
    comp.os.ms-windows.apps.winsock.mail 
	    Winsock-based electronic mail applications and utilities
    comp.os.ms-windows.apps.winsock.news 
	    Winsock-based Usenet news readers and servers
    comp.os.ms-windows.apps.winsock.misc 
	    Winsock-based applications other than news and email

SOFTWARE -- WINDOWS NT-SPECIFIC:
    comp.os.ms-windows.nt.software.backoffice
	    Microsoft BackOffice (SMS, SQL Server, Exchange, SNA Server, 
	    Internet Information Server)
    comp.os.ms-windows.nt.software.services     
	    System services software for Windows NT, including daemons,
	    servers and background processes; not intended for general
	    desktop application discussions.

SOFTWARE -- COMPATABILITY ISSUES:
    comp.os.ms-windows.apps.compatibility.win95
	    Compatibility issues with Win16 and MS-DOS applications on Win95.
    comp.os.ms-windows.nt.software.compatibility
	    Compatibility issues with Win16 and MS-DOS applications on NT.

NETWORKING -- WINDOWS 3.x, 95 AND NT:
    comp.os.ms-windows.networking.ras    
	    Use of Remote Access Services (RAS) dial-up networking
    comp.os.ms-windows.networking.tcp-ip 
	    TCP/IP-based networking for Windows, includign NFS and apps
    comp.os.ms-windows.networking.windows
	    Windows' native networking: WFWG, NT, NTAS and LAN Manager
    comp.os.ms-windows.networking.win95
	    Windows 95-specific networking issues
    comp.os.ms-windows.networking.misc   
	    All other networks, such as Netware, Banyan Vines and LANtastic

PROGRAMMING AND SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT -- TECHNIQUES:
    comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.controls  
	    Using controls, custom controls, VBXs, OCXs and dialogs
    comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.graphics  
	    Graphics and GDI programming in Windows
    comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.memory    
	    Memory and process management, threads and IPC in Windows
    comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.multimedia
	    Development of multimedia and video applications
    comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.networks  
	    Network-specific application development for Windows
    comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.ole       
	    Creating OLE, COM and DDE-based applications
    comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.win32     
	    Developing for the Win32 API (including NT and Win32s)
    comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.winhelp   
	    Developing WinHelp and Multimedia Viewer files and applications
    comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.misc      
	    All other Windows programming and development discussions

PROGRAMMING AND SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT -- DEVELOPMENT TOOLS:
    comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.tools.mfc    
	    Microsoft Foundation Classes (MFC) class library-specific discussion
    comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.tools.owl    
	    ObjectWindows Library (OWL) class library-specific discussion
    comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.tools.winsock
	    Developing Winsock-based TCP/IP applications
    comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.tools.misc   
	    Windows development tools, class libraries and compilers
	    except for OWL and MFC

PROGRAMMING AND SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT -- DEVICE DRIVERS:
    comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.nt.kernel-mode 
	    Development of Windows NT kernel-mode drivers
    comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.vxd            
	    Development of VxDs and Windows 3.x and 95 device drivers

VISUAL BASIC AND DELPHI GROUPS:
    comp.lang.basic.visual.database
	    Database access and development
    comp.lang.basic.visual.3rdparty	
	    Third-party tools
    comp.lang.basic.visual.announce
	    MODERATED.  Announcements only
    comp.lang.basic.visual.misc		
	    Other Visual Basic discussions

    comp.lang.pascal.delphi.controls	
	    Using controls in Delphi
    comp.lang.pascal.delphi.database	
	    Delphi database development
    comp.lang.pascal.delphi.misc	
	    Other Delphi discussions

OTHER RELATED GROUPS:
    comp.apps.spreadsheets        
	    Spreadsheets and related applications, including Excel, Quattro
	    and 1-2-3.
    comp.databases.ms-access      
	    Using and programming Microsoft's Access database package
    comp.databases.ms-sqlserver
	    Using and programming Microsoft SQL Server
    comp.os.msdos.mail-news       
	    Administering mail and news software on Windows and MS-DOS.
    comp.binaries.ms-windows      
	    MODERATED.  Shareware, freeware, drivers and other binary files.
    comp.protocols.tcp-ip.ibmpc   
	    Discussions about the use of TCP/IP on PC systems
    bit.listserv.win3-l           
	    This newsgroup is a copy of the BITNET WIN3-L mailing list for
	    all Windows discussions

GENERAL -- REGIONAL GROUPS:
    uk.comp.os.win95	
	    Any and all Windows 95 related issues, including, and not limited
	    to, hardware and software selection, setup, Internet access and
	    hardware compatibility.  Intended principally for UK based users.

OBSOLETE GROUPS: (Superseded by other newsgroups)
    comp.os.ms-windows.setup       
	    Windows 3.x setup and installation
    comp.os.ms-windows.win95.setup 
	    Windows 95 setup and installation
    alt.winsock                    
	    Winsock applications and stacks (TCP/IP)
    alt.winsock.programmer         
	    Winsock application development (TCP/IP)

NON-WINDOWS NEWSGROUPS: (Do not use for Windows-specific topics!)
    comp.lang.visual   
	    Visual programming languages, *not* Visual Basic or Visual C++
    comp.lang.pascal.* 
	    The Pascal language itself; not appropriate for Windows topics
    comp.lang.c        
	    The C language itself; not appropriate for Windows topics
    comp.lang.c++      
	    The C++ language itself; not appropriate for Windows topics
    comp.windows.news  
	    For the NeWS windowing system, not Microsoft Windows
    comp.windows.misc  
	    For other windowing systems, not Microsoft Windows

MAILING LISTS:
    MFC-L mailing list
	    The mfc-l mailing list is a moderated mailing list intended for
	    intermediate and advanced MFC programmers.  People may subscribe
	    to this list by sending a note to listserv@netcom.com with the line
		subscribe mfc-l
	    in the body.
    OWL-LIST mailing list
	    The owl-list mailing list is a moderated mailing list intended for
	    intermediate and advanced OWL programmers.  People may subscribe
	    to this list by sending a note to majordomo@netlab.cs.rpi.edu with
	    the line
		subscribe owl-list <address>
	    in the body.

	 
GENERAL GUIDELINES:
    Please try to post to the appropriate newsgroup, and try to avoid
    crossposting whenever possible. This makes it easier for everyone
    to find the information they are looking for without wading through
    irrelevant articles.

    Second, please do not get involved in arguments about Windows vs.
    OS/2 vs. Macintosh vs. NeXTSTEP *except* in the .advocacy groups.
    Don't post any comparison or argument, and if someone else posts one
    -- don't post a followup! Ignore this flamebait, and help increase
    the signal-to-noise ratio of the newsgroups.

SUBSCRIBING AND UNSUBSCRIBING:
    To subscribe to a Usenet newsgroup, you can use the "gnewsgroupname"
    command at the newsgroup level in rn, trn and strn.  To unsubscribe,
    hit "u" while in that newsgroup, if you are using rn, trn or strn.
    If you're using a Windows-based newsreader, please consult the
    documentation for instructions on subscribing and unsubscribing.

    To subscribe to a LISTSERV mailing list, send a mail message to the
    LISTSERV at the mailing list address (ie LISTSERV@uicvm.bitnet for the
    WINHLP-L@uicvm.bitnet list) containing just the text "SUBSCRIBE listname"
    in the body.  To unsubscribe, send mail to that same LISTSERV with the
    body "UNSUBSCRIBE listname" or "SIGNOFF listname".

WINDOWS FAQS:
    The Windows FAQs are available by anonymous ftp from ftp.metrics.com and
    other sites; see the companion posting "How to get ..." posted simulta-
    neously with this one for further details.

MICROSOFT FTP SITE:
    Microsoft also maintains an ftp site (ftp.microsoft.com) with drivers,
    patches and utilities on it for all of Microsoft's operating systems,
    including Windows, Windows for Workgroups and Windows NT.

MORE INFORMATION:
    If you have questions about these guidelines, you can email to Tom
    Haapanen (maintainer of the FAQ, tomh@metrics.com) or Sean Graham
    (moderator of the .announce groups, sgraham@shiloh.nimh.nih.gov).
-- 
[ /tom haapanen -- tomh@metrics.com -- software metrics inc -- waterloo, ont ]
[ "you see things; and you say 'why?'; but i dream                           ]
[  things that never were, and i say 'why not?'       -- george bernard shaw ]
