Brian Lingard	about 3,000 words
9 Wadsworth Road
Shrewsbury, MA 01545

(508) 842-5662










Confessions of a Software Weenie

by Brian S. Lingard




The Adventure Begins
#
Hi.  I'm a software weenie.  I used to be a hardware 
engineer, but when peace broke out everywhere during the middle 
1990's, the work dried up.  I was just completing a graduate 
degree in Electrical Engineering and luckily had taken several 
software courses towards the end of my program.  So the shift 
into software development was fairly natural.
I suppose I should state that when I use the phrase 
"software weenie", I don't mean anything derogatory by it at all.  
It's just a phrase that a friend of mine used to use to describe 
himself, and he has been a software engineer for many years now.  
Besides, I enjoy programming and I have enjoyed programming for 
many years.  
This book is a collection of essays and reminiscences about 
my transformation into a software engineer.  Most of these were 
written for my own enjoyment, possibly to benefit my two sons 
when they are older.  Hopefully, others may find these pieces 
entertaining.
#
When I Was Ten...
#
When I was about ten years old (circa 1974), my father 
bought his first computer, an RCA Cosmac Elf.  It was a kit that 
you had to build yourself.  It came with printed circuit boards, 
all the chips, wires, and so on.  It used an 8-bit processor that 
amazingly didn't come from Intel.  The system actually predated 
IBM type PCs by several years.
To use it you had to enter (by hand of course, there wasn't 
even a cassette tape interface for storage) the program as a 
series of hexadecimal codes (technically machine language).  The 
system's keyboard was only a numeric keypad and the display was a 
set of four seven-segment LEDs.  After a couple of years, my 
father obtained a normal keyboard, installed a BASIC interpreter, 
and built a video controller for a text display monitor (from a 
kit of course).  When I was about twelve years old, I wrote my 
own version of the Space Invaders game, written mostly ran in 
BASIC but had some portions written in machine language (to speed 
up the keyboard control).  So I guess I've been a software weenie 
since I was in the sixth grade, and maybe my stint as a hardware 
engineer was just a passing fad.
#
Commodore Computers
#
Since then I've had several of my own computers of various 
types and until recently I've managed to avoid thinking about 
actually buying a PC clone.  I have been a Commodore supporter 
for many years starting with their amazing (for circa 1980) VIC-
20 and then C-64 machines.  
{more about C-64}
A few years ago I needed to get a machine that I could use 
to help me get through graduate school and be capable of decent 
graphics.  So I opted for an Amiga.  
{more about amiga}
But now Commodore has gone bust, and the sale of Commodore's 
assets and technology still hasn't been resolved, so I feel I 
must get a PC clone soon to keep from being left behind in the 
technology grave yard.  I suppose some people out there would 
say, "why didn't you get a Mac if you wanted good graphics".  Now 
while I agree that the Mac's have been superior to PC clones in 
graphics, I like having an actual command line interface, thank 
you very much.  But I hated DOS.  So my choice was to buy an 
Amiga or spend thousands more and buy a Unix workstation.  I 
don't think so.
But of course if money were no object, I would get an SGI 
Indy or Indigo workstation, truly the cream of the graphics crop.  
Too bad the software is so damned expensive.  
#
Graduate School
#
Anyway I am getting ahead of myself a bit.  As you may have 
noticed I am somewhat into the computer graphics thing.  I 
recently finished up taking a couple classes in computer 
graphics.  Way cool.  If you have the time and don't mind 
studying a bit, take some computer graphics classes.  You won't 
be disappointed.  You get to play around with some really neat 
tools and look at pretty pictures and call it homework.  But my 
main interests revolve around virtual reality and multimedia 
related topics.
#
Me and My VR
#
My interest in VR probably got spawned about 3 years ago when I 
was out in Seattle on vacation and I went to an arcade that 
featured the Virtuality game called Dactyl Nightmare.  Dactyl 
used two Amiga's as the CPUs and had two platforms where the 
players stood to play the game.  Each player was outfitted with a 
head mounted display and was handed a combo trigger/joystick 
device.  A player's view showed a multi-tiered playing field, 
which had stairs leading down from upper tiers to a central lower 
tier.  Other objects were scattered around each tier.  You could 
see your opponent standing on one of the opposite upper tiers in 
kind of a robot looking outfit.  You could look up, down, side to 
side.  You could squat down behind objects.  You could walk up 
and down stairs, and around the tiered platforms.  You computer 
generated hand held a gun of sorts which you used to fire at your 
opponent.  The object of the game was to "kill" your opponent as 
many times as you could before the time ran out and while trying 
to avoid being picked up and dropped by a Teradactyl flying 
overhead.  Though the screen updates were a little slow, the game 
was incredibly fun to play.  I spent way too much money playing 
it while we were there.
Ever since then I've wanted to create my own VR system at 
home or better still get paid a salary to develop one for someone 
else.  So I have been reading and studying anything I can get my 
hands on ever since trying that game.



	LINGARD / WEENIE / 2
