What is NESFA

NESFA is the New England Science Fiction Association Inc., formed in 1967.
Isaac Asimov was one of the original members. NESFA is an IRS-registered
non-profit literary organization dedicated to Science Fiction appreciation.

What does NESFA do?

Conventions

NESFA runs the annual regional science fiction convention Boskone (since
Boskone 5 in 1968), which currently has about 800 attendees. Boskone is the
oldest SF convention in New England. NESFA also has two small social weekend
conventions for fans yearly in interesting local vacation spots, called
Relaxacons.

For more information about Boskone, click here.

Publishing

NESFA is a respected small press in the Science Fiction field. NESFA Press has
produced the NESFA Index to Short Fiction, Boskone guest of honor books, the
NESFA Hymnal, Worldcon books, and most recently the acclaimed NESFA's Choice
books, including The Best of James H. Schmitz and The Rediscovery of Man: The
Complete Short Science Fiction of Cordwainer Smith. New books are constantly
forthcoming. NESFA also has publications written by fans, which including the
magazines Proper Boskonian and APA:NESFA.

For more information about NESFA Press, click here.

Social Events

NESFA holds 2 meetings monthly, except in mid- summer, on Sunday afternoons.
All the business of the club is conducted at a meeting early in the month,
sometimes preceded by a Boskone meeting. This meeting is held at the NESFA
Clubhouse. Later in the month is the informal Other Meeting, where people get
together at a member's house for small committee meetings, general socializing,
and barbecues in good weather. Non-members are welcome at both meetings. On the
Wednesday following a meeting NESFA usually has a collation at the clubhouse of
our newsletter Instant Message, which is sent to all members. During the year,
NESFA plans various other social events, discussion groups, meetings and
activities.

Where is NESFA?

Our clubhouse is at 504 Medford St., Somerville (phone 617-625- 2311), just off
Broadway near Magoun Square. NESFA's membership is world-wide, but the most
active members are in Eastern Massachusetts. NESFA and Boskone topics are on
GEnie, America Online, and CompuServe; members also frequent the Internet and
Usenet, especially rec.arts.sf.fandom and other rec.arts.sf groups.

Why join NESFA?

For $16 subscribing annual membership to NESFA, you receive: all issues of
Instant Message, detailing the club's activities and providing information on
upcoming events; borrowing privileges from the constantly updated NESFA
library, with thousands of books and magazines; up to 40% discounts on most
NESFA Press publications; and opportunities to meet fellow fans and get
involved in running Boskone, publishing books, and numerous other activities.
For those wishing to be more involved, many opportunities exist. Write us at:
NESFA
PO Box 809
Framingham, MA 01701
