UNEARTH, THE MAGAZINE OF SCIENCE FICTION DISCOVERIES  
  
John M. Landsberg and Jonathan Ostrowsky-Lantz, eds.  
  
UNEARTH was the first publication devoted to new writers.    
The eighties were marked by the emergence of major talents   
UNEARTH discovered; the nineties are witnessing the continued   
expansion of their influence.  
  
Fewer than two hundred mint copies of each issue, never   
removed from the original printer's boxes, exist.  Small   
imperfections can be found in some; the editors, with no   
financial backing, were concerned with finding and supporting new   
writers; inexpensive printing was mandatory.  We hope you will   
relish the delight of experiencing the first works, in original   
settings, by writers who are now acknowledged masters.  
  
Each issue features a ``First Sale,'' a reprint of the first   
story by a major writer, along with a brand new introduction by   
that writer.  
  
NUMBER ONE  
  
A striking black-and-white cover by Steven Gildea, whose   
work has been widely displayed, including in an exhibit at   
Boston's Museum of Science.  
  
Paul Di Filippo's first story, Harlan Ellison's ``First   
Sale,'' with Ellison's new introduction, Hal Clement's initial   
column about the uses of science in fiction.  Fiction by Debra   
Thrall, Daniel C. Smith, K. W. MacAnn, Danny Williams, and Chris   
Dornan.  
  
Book and movie reviews by Craig Shaw Gardner.  An article on   
writing science fiction by editor John M. Landsberg.  
  
NUMBER TWO  
  
Timothy R. Sullivan's first story, ``Tachyon Rag.''  Keith   
Justice's first story.  ``Proof,'' Hal Clement's famous ``First   
Sale,'' with Clement's new introduction.  
  
Film reviews by Craig Shaw Gardner.  ``Science For Fiction''   
column by Hal Clement.  Fiction by Chris Dornan, David Frieze,   
and Sterling Taylor.  Book review by Terence Green.  Letters from   
James Tiptree and Algis Budrys.  
  
And our first color cover.  
  
NUMBER THREE  
  
``Fragments of a Hologram Rose,'' the first work of fiction by   
cyberpunk megastar William Gibson.  Also includes the first   
stories by three other superstars:  James P. Blaylock, one of the   
few science fiction writers ever to win an O. Henry Award, Somtow   
Sucharitkul (S. P. Somtow), and Richard Bowker.  
  
Algis Budrys' ``First Sale,'' with Budrys' new introduction.    
Harlan Ellison's initial column on writing.  Hal Clement's   
science column.  Fiction by Toby Perkins.  Film reviews by Craig   
Shaw Gardner.  
  
Theodore Sturgeon said this issue has ``the finest clutch of   
fiction to be found in any prozine around.''  He added, ``I have   
long wanted a Hugo to go to the best issue of any magazine during   
the Hugo year... I'd nominate this one.''  
  
  
NUMBER FOUR  
  
Part one of the serial ``Downward To Darkness,'' by Timothy R.   
Sullivan.    
  
Columns by Harlan Ellison, Hal Clement; Craig Shaw Gardner's   
analysis of Star Wars.  Fiction by Mike Baron, John Kelly, Bruce   
Kent, and Chris Dornan.  Poetry by Caroline Dechert.  
  
Norman Spinrad's ``First Sale,'' ``The Last of the Romany,''   
with Spinrad's new introduction.  
  
  
NUMBER FIVE  
  
The First Anniversary Issue, heralded by a startling wrap-  
around cover by Clyde Caldwell.  
  
The conclusion of Tim Sullivan's serial ``Downward To   
Darkness.''  Fiction by now-prominent sf novelists David C. Poyer   
and Steve Vance.  John Kelly's second story.  Fiction by David   
DeWitt.  
  
TWO ``First Sales'':  Kate Wilhelm's and Roger Zelazny's, each   
with the author's new introduction.  
  
Guest editorial by Theodore Sturgeon.  
  
Columns by Harlan Ellison, Hal Clement, and Craig Shaw   
Gardner.  
  
And the UNEARTH Story Contest -- write a story with Harlan   
Ellison.  
  
NUMBER SIX  
  
The first story by best-selling author Craig Shaw Gardner.    
James P. Blaylock's second story, possibly the first ``steam-punk''   
story ever.  
  
Damon Knight's ``First Sale,'' with his new introduction.  
  
Harlan Ellison's famous statement of ethical position   
concerning his Guest of Honor status at WorldCon 1978.  
  
A writing column by Charles Platt.  An article on music in   
sf by Somtow Sucharitkul.  
  
Fiction by Meg Files, Richard P. Saggio, Laura E. Campbell,   
and Daniel Gordon.  Hal Clement's ``Science For Fiction'' column.    
Craig Shaw Gardner's film review.  
  
All of the varied and stunning artwork in this issue is by   
the amazing Clyde Caldwell.  
  
NUMBER SEVEN  
  
The first installment of Rudy Rucker's remarkable, primal   
cyberpunk novel, Spacetime Donuts.       
  
Fiction from Steve Vance and Neil Olonoff.  
  
Poul Anderson's ``First Sale,'' with his new introduction.  
  
``Science For Fiction'' column by Hal Clement.  Film reviews   
by Craig Shaw Gardner.  Book review by Jeff Frane.  
       
NUMBER EIGHT  
  
Second Anniversary Issue.  The second installment of Rudy   
Rucker's novel, Spacetime Donuts.  New fiction from Richard   
Bowker, Craig Shaw Gardner, Steven Bryan Bieler, and Kevin A.   
Lyons.  
  
THREE ``First Sales'':  by Philip K. Dick, Michael Moorcock,   
and Fritz Leiber, each with a fascinating new introduction by the   
author.  
  
The winning entry in the UNEARTH Story Contest.  
  
``Science For Fiction'' by Hal Clement.  Book reviews by Jeff   
Frane and John M. Landsberg.  An sf games review by Craig Shaw   
Gardner.  Many illustrations by Barclay Shaw.  
  
For further information, please send SASE to:  
  
John M. Landsberg  
P.O. Box 23234  
Santa Barbara, CA 93121.  
