{PowerGlove FAQ}

Forward

Mattel PowerGlove FAQ version 0.3, [date].

Written by jet@well.sf.ca.us (j. eric townsend).

Significant help and input from:

Randy Shedden (randysh@microsoft.com), Linda Jacobson
(lindaj@well.sf.ca.us),lots of people on the WELL, sci.virtual-worlds, and of
course, the glove-list.

The FAQ is still in a very rough state. Please send changes/adds/deletes to
jet@well.sf.ca.us.

All sorts of product names are probably trademark by the appropriate vendors.

Comments in the form of [DO YOU UNDERSTAND THIS? -JET] are notes to myself, let
me know if you have something to replace the note with.

A current version of this file can be obtained from ~jet/public on the WELL or
netcom. It will also be posted to USENET's sci.virtual-worlds, the WELL's vr
conference and various mailing lists at sporadic intervals.

If you are reading this via a World Wide Web (WWW) client here might be an
interesting place.

This is probably the last version of the PowerGlove-specific FAQ. It will
probably be consumed by a HomeBrew VR FAQ, if things go well. (I recently (Jul
94) changed jobs. Much of my free time is consumed with work here at General
Magic, Inc., making the world a safer place for personal communicators.)

DISCLAIMER

This document does not constitute an endorsement of any of the products,
services or groups listed.

It's not my fault if you get hurt, suffer loses, or get into trouble because of
anything you read in this document.

Please read the distribution restrictions in the Introduction.

Introduction

This document assumes you have a basic familiarity with the terms and concepts
related to virtual reality and also with USENET and the Internet with its
related tools (telnet, ftp, mail).

This document is written in TeXinfo, which means it is equally easy to read in
source form or print out a nicely formatted copy. But wait, there's more! You
could convince your site admin to install the powerglove faq into the emacs
info database, and read it with emacs info or xinfo! If you don't want/can't
info or print this document, you'll be able to read through with little, if
any, difficulty. (For more information on texinfo, poke around in GNU emacs or
ftp the texinfo package from /pub/gnu on prep.ai.mit.edu.)

This document is copyrighted by J. Eric Townsend as documented on the opening
pages and cover. Permission is given to non-profit corporations to redistribute
this document in electronic or printed form as long as the document is
distributed in its entirety. Permission is given to online services such as the
WELL, Mindvox, and others to store this document for distribution to
subscribers only if equal access to this document is provided to
non-subscribers. (See the WELL's gopher server for an example, where this
document can be accessed by gopher from systems the WELL does not own or
control.) Permission is also given for USENET sites to redistribute this
document to other USENET sites.

Any for-profit distribution of this document is strictly prohibited, including
CD-ROM compilations or inclusion in any other published work where a fee is
charged.

What is a PowerGlove?

In 1989 Mattel (yes, the toy company) introduced the PowerGlove, a handtracking
device based on a glove. The PowerGlove was intended to work with the Nintendo
Entertainment System (NES) in place of a regular controller. The PowerGlove can
track motion of the glove in three-space, finger position, and has a set of
buttons/switches on the top of the wrist.

It has two modes "hires" and "lores". In "hires" mode, the PG reports the
position in threespace, the roll, and configuration of fingers along with the
SELECT, START, A, B, CENTER and ARROW CLUSTER switches (which are a part of the
NES standard controller). In lores mode the glove reports position on the hand
on the x and y axis and the buttons (thus emulating a NES controller completely
and allowing one to use the glove with non-glove-specific games).

The lores mode also allows the users to select one of fourteen (?) built-in
programs that associate different sets of motions with the NES controller
outputs of up/down/left/right/select/start/A/B. Each program also has its own
translation of finger movements to control inputs.

Why use a PowerGlove instead of <foo>glove

PowerGloves originally cost around $100, if you're lucky these days you can
find them usually under $30 at a Toys R' Us on the remaindered rack. Most of
the gloves on the shelves have been bought up, some by speculators. (I keep
hearing rumors of people with 40-50 gloves in a closet who trickle them out a
few at a time.) If you don't know what a Dataglove costs, you probably can't
afford it.

What are the big problems?

Several problems face you if you want to use a PowerGlove as a VR input device.
These aren't technical problems (although there are those as well), mind you,
but real-world problems.

There is no official hardware or software support from Mattel, and the gloves
are no longer being produced. Of course, there is no official hardware or
software support from any third party companies either.

Contact Nintendo for information if you like, but the person who answers the
phone probably won't even know what a PowerGlove is.

On the up side, everything you will use was probably written or designed by a
fellow hacker.

What are the technical problems?

The ultrasonic sensing is done with inexpensive microphones so it is difficult
to place the sensing array directly on a computer monitor and get a clean
signal. A somewhat common fix is to hang the sensing "array" on a wall that has
a low ultrasonic reflection rate. People are using anything from towels to
ultrasonic anechoic foam to dampen the noise.

This detailed list of problems is from Randy Shedden:

  1.  In order register your hand position, you must point your knuckles at the
     receiver array. It gets tiring holding your hand up for extended periods.

  2.  The only information about hand orientation that get is rotation. (This
     is also called roll.) In flight technology, if you raise one wing while
     you lower the other, this is called rolling the plane. Ascribing this
     behavior to your hand, if you raise your little finger while lowering your
     thumb, this would also be called roll. If a plane moves it's nose to the
     left while the tail moves to the right, the plane is said to yaw. If you
     do the same thing with your hand, the ultrasonic transmitters would point
     away from the sensor array and you would lose all orientation information.
     If a plane lowers it's nose while the tail is raised, the plane is said to
     pitch. If you do the same thing with your hand, again you lose all
     orientation information. So, while the VPL DataGlove can track yawl, pitch
     and roll. The PG can only track roll (commonly called rotation).

  3.  The information about how your hand is configured is not very accurate.
     As mentioned above, the material that covers the thumb and fingers has
     different electrical resistance depending on how much it is flexed. So,
     when you have a finger fully extended, the material is not flexed at all.
     When you have a finger fully clenched, the material is flexed to it's
     functional limits. This is expressed in terms of a degree of flexure
     (bentness) for each digit. This degree is one of 4 integer values.

     0 means the digit is fully extended.

     1 means the digit is a little bent

     2 means the digit is more bent than straight and

     3 means the digit is fully bent.

  4.  For each digit, this resolution isn't very good. Aside from that, it is
     hard to flex the material to reproduce the desire degree of flexature. For
     instance, it is not a trivial matter to do a gesture that requires that
     the ring finger be at state 1 (a little bent). This digital (no pun
     intended) value is also hard to maintain once you have it, because moving
     the neighboring digits can have an effect on the flexure of the digit in
     question. Try bending your middle finger without also bending your ring
     finger. Additionally, Only the thumb and THREE of your fingers are tracked
     at all. For some reason, the PG doesn't keep track of your pinky. In
     comparison, the VPL DataGlove gives much better resolution on ALL of your
     digits and material (a small fiber optic cable) is much easier to use than
     the bulky PG material.

Resources

If you are interested in the various mailing lists, you'll want to grab the
canonical list of mailing lists from news.answers on USENET. (Or, failing that,
from the author arielle@taronga.com. Don't bother her unless you need to, she's
very busy and too nice to bother with trivial problems.)

The PowerGlove mailing list

The PowerGlove mailing list is dead. (It fell on its head.)

Modulo buying/selling used gloves, there was no glove-related traffic. I'll
attempt to put *every* bit of knowledge in this and future versions of the FAQ.
Once I've cleaned out the huge amount of crud from the archives, I'll put a
condensed version of them out for FTP. (The raw archives will be available for
those masochists who want to do a statistical analysis of "unsubscribe me from
this list" messages from various domains.)

sci.virtual-worlds (sci.v-r)

(From Bob Jacobson, past moderator of sci.v-r and the current moderating
staff.)

sci.virtual-worlds and its sibling, sci.virtual-worlds.apps, are newsgroups on
the USENET covering developments in the field of virtual worlds technology and
applications, respectively. These newsgroups, now three years old, serve an
international community of over 15,000 regular participants with news,
technology highlights and developments, scientific and philosophical issues,
and discussions of how virtual worlds (also known as "virtual reality") are or
will be used in various commercial and social settings.

Newsgroup submissions should be sent to: <scivw@hitl.washington.edu> Questions
or comments should be sent to: <scivw-request@hitl.washington.edu>

The sci.virtual-worlds Moderating Group:

MICHAEL ALMQUIST <squish@hitl.washington.edu> - Michael Almquist (aka.
"squish") has been hanging out at the HITLab for over two years now after
obtaining a BS in Computer Science.

TONI EMERSON <temerson@hitl.washington.edu> - Toni is Coordinator of the HITL
Knowledge Base Project and Manager of the sci.virtual-worlds Moderating Group.

DANIEL PIRONE <cocteau@hitl.washington.edu> - Daniel Pirone has a BS in
Computer & Information Science. He is a HITL staff member, part of the Software
Group.

JERRY PROTHERO <prothero@hitl.washington.edu> - Jerry is a Research Assistant
at the HITLab, currently finishing his master's in Industrial Engineering.

AARON KALEVA PULKKA <pulkka@cs> - Aaron earned his B.S. in Computer Engineering
at the University of Washington, where he is currently pursuing a Ph.D. in
Computer Science & Engineering.

MARK TAKACS <tak@hitl.washington.edu> - Mark has just finished his master's
thesis (Prolix: A text based participant system for VR) and spends more time
than he can spare exploring the internet and programming Muds.

A mailing list is kept by Prof. Greg Newby at the University of Illinois for
those who cannot directly access s.v-w and s.v-w.a via the USENET. Requests to
be added to this list should be sent to:

gbnewby@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu

This is not an automatic operation; please be patient while Greg makes the
necessary additions.

The newsgroups are also featured on CompuServe, in the Arts Section, in
abbreviated form; excerpts also appear on GEnie, BIX, and the WELL (in its vr
conference). Welcome!

The FAQ for s.v-w is at ftp.u.washington.edu, ./public/virtual-worlds/Meta-FAQ.
The FAQ is posted monthly on the 13th.

VRASP

VRASP is an organization that you probably want to belong to. They are putting
out quality information at a reasonable cost. Plus, it's tax deductible.
(e-flyer courtesy of Mark Pflaging.)

VRASP

The Virtual Reality Alliance of Students and Professionals is a support network
and educational forum dedicated to increasing public knowledge of virtual
reality applications, and to furthering the development of VR technology as a
whole. Our membership is global and diverse, and includes both lay- and
professional programmers, researchers, inventors, graphic artists, writers,
promoters, film-makers and philosophers.

We are presently functioning as a resource bank and referral network for those
seeking information on VR and the VR community, distributing research and
development findings as well as product and promotional information. We hold
our own educationally-oriented meetings and events at which VRASP members get
to socialize "ftf", sharing their eclectic knowledge and cooperatively pursuing
a future where Virtual Reality is a Reality.

We are also the publishers of "PIX-Elation"; a bi-monthly 'zine featuring
product surveys, event and convention reviews, lecture transcriptions, scanned
and rendered graphics, an industry networking page and a calendar of upcoming
industry events, as well as interviews with leading researchers, groundbreaking
artists, and proponents of "homebrew" VR. "PIX" is written primarily by VRASP
members, all of whom are invited to submit their articles, graphics, and
findings.

MEMBERSHIP Individual member dues are $30 per year inside the US. All other
countries: $40. This includes bimonthly issues of PIX-Elation, regular
admission to VRASP Chats and discounts at VRASP lectures and workshops. For
special Business and Institutional Member Rates, please contact us.

Volunteerism is strongly encouraged and will be rewarded by a special
"Contributing Member" designation. This status will entitle you to special
privileges, such as networking opportunities and the ability to hold office in
the organization, as well as public acknowledgment in the newsletter and at
conferences.

CONTACT INFORMATION:

Karin August President, VRASP Publisher, PIX-Elation PO Box 4139 Highland Park,
NJ 08904-4139 Voice: (908) 463-VRVR Fax: (908) 580-0092 Internet:
kaugust@caip.rutgers.edu

Tod Foley Director, VRASP Senior Editor, PIX-Elation 8055 Wakefield Ave
Panorama City, CA 91402 Voice: (818) 786-6318 Fax/Modem: call to arrange

Internet: asif@well.sf.ca.us random@cyberden.sf.ca.us random@phantom.com

Amiga and VR mailing list

Ethan Dicks has set up a discussion list for topics related to using the Amiga
for VR. To subscribe, send mail to amigavr-list-request@kumiss.cmhnet.org.

trackers mailing list

The trackers list usually covers 3d-related issues. Requests go to
trackers-request@qucis.queensu.ca. [1NOV93 I recieved email that this list is
dead. Anyone confirm/deny? -eric]

WTK list

From Terry Fong:

The WorldToolKit Users' Group is intended to provide a contact point for users
of Sense8 Corp.'s "WorldToolKit" to discuss and exchange information on a
variety of topics. Among these are:

   * 3D objects: modeling, importing/exporting to WTK NFF, sharing
   * sensor drivers: development, reducing lag & latency
   * managing user interaction
   * efficient development of virtual environments with WTK
   * distribution and sharing of virtual environments
   * improving simulation performance (e.g., frame rate, quality)
   * platform specific issues (e.g., GL queues on SGI machines)
   * advocating WTK improvements/changes to Sense8

The group has a mailing list which forwards email messages:
sig-wtk@ptolemy.arc.nasa.gov. Anyone interested in joining the sig-wtk list
should send email to: terry@ptolemy.arc.nasa.gov

Terry Fong NASA Ames Research Center

REND386 mailing list

REND386 mailing list. rend386 is a great rendering package for the 386, PG can
be used as an input device (@pxref {REND386}).

Contact: rend386-request@sunee.uwaterloo.ca

ftp sites

A good FTP site for general VR information is
ftp.u.washington.edu:/pub/user-supported/virtual-worlds. This site is
maintained by the folks who do sci.v-r on usenet.

schmidt@cogsci.uwo.ca has offered the use of cogsci.uwo.ca as a PowerGlove
related ftp site. Check: /pub/vr for a variety of glove-list related stuff.

Someone at Apple has started a VR section at ftp.apple.com:/pub/VR. This site
contains Jon Blossom's Gossamer along with other goodies for the Apple Mac.

Please note that karazm.math.uh.edu is no longer the PowerGlove ftp site.

PCVR Magazine

From the PCVR electronic flyer:

PCVR, a new Virtual Reality publication, introduces high-tech Virtual Reality
equipment, theories, and software to the layperson by simplifying procedures,
languages, and materials. The equipment necessary for a Virtual Reality system
usually costs over $25,000 and is primarily available to universities and
businesses. PCVR changes this situation by bringing the technology into the
home through tutorials and do-it-yourself projects. Through step-by-step
articles, a complete Virtual Reality system can be built for under $3000
including the personal computer necessary to execute the system.

For $26 a year, subscribers receive 6 issues which contain; editorials,
thought-provoking columns, hardware/software topics, tutorials, and
do-it-yourself projects. We also include a disk as a convenience to the reader,
which contains all the software discussed in the articles.

The hardware projects have covered connecting the Sega 3D glasses and Mattel
Powerglove to an IBM personal computer, building a head mounted display, and
constructing a head tracker device. These do-it-yourself projects use
off-the-shelf components which enables a non-technical person access to Virtual
Reality equipment in their own home.

The tutorials explain the major technical areas of Virtual Reality without the
jargon usually associated with industry journals.

PCVR intends to bring Virtual Reality out of science laboratories and into the
general computer community.

Subscription Information (6 Issues): $26.00 US/Canada, $38.00 Overseas. Back
Issues- All Are Available 1-9: $4.50 US/Canada, $6.50 Overseas Payment: Check
or Money Order drawn on US bank in US dollars. VISA, Mastercard and American
Express

Issue Themes:

   * Issue 1 - Theme: PowerGlove Interface - 28 Pages
   * Issue 2 - Theme: PowerGlove Software - 35 Pages
   * Issue 3 - Theme: Head Mounted Display and Sega 3D Glasses - 36 Pages
   * Issue 4 - Theme: Rend386 Rendering Software - 45 Pages
   * Issue 5 - Theme: Head Tracking - 36 Pages
   * Issue 6 - Theme: 3D Sound - 36 Pages
   * Issue 7 - Theme: VR Motion - 36 Pages
   * Issue 8 - Theme: PCVR Renderer - 40 Pages
   * Issue 9 - Theme: Build Your Own Head Mounted Display for $450 40 Pages
   * Issue 10- Theme: Voice Recognition 40 Pages
   * Issue 11- Theme: VR Connectivity 52 Pages
   * Issue 12- Theme: Input Devices 64 Pages
   * Issue 13- Theme: Head Tracking (27Dec1993) 64 Pages

PCVR can be contacted at: PCVR; PO Box 475; Stoughton, WI 53589; Phone/FAX:
(608) 877 - 0909; EMAIL: pcvr@fullfeed.com

Other Power Glove people / Previous Works

This is sort of a history, I'm not sure of the exact order, but the facts are
sort of correct.

First, there's the history of the PowerGlove itself. Rich Gold, in CyberArts
writes: [INSERT TEXT FROM CYBERARTS]

   *  Howard Eglowstein (sp?) had an article in the July 1990 issue of Byte
     showing how to hook the PG to an IBM PC's parallel port and decoding the
     lores mode. ("Reach out and touch your data", BYTE Vol 15, No 7 (July
     1990) pp283-290)

   *  Mike Cargal and Paul King built a cable and wrote a driver to interface
     the glove in lores to the Amiga via the mouseport, this combo was called
     "PowerMouse". Work was done in 1990 and published in the 1991 issue of
     Amazing Computing's Tech magazine. The code is in Modula-2 and has
     shareware status.

   *  Greg Newby posted his results of decoding hires mode in sci.electronics.

   *  Manfred Krauss figured out the timing of hires mode and wrote some code
     to run hires on an Atari ST.

   *  Dave Stampe added some de-glitching and hysteresis code.

   *  Several people are using it as a MIDI input device. PCVR has released a
     racketball game based on rend386 that uses the PG and the Sega 3D glasses.

Hardware Interfaces

AGE box

AGE built a serial interface device and sold them to a few universities. They
aren't generally available and have an almost mythical status.

Gold Brick

Many users on the glove-list have used this box. Charlie S.Lindahl
(lindahl@cse.uta.edu) comments:

I have done a lot of hacking around with the Transfinite Systems box on the
Mac. Two points:

  1.  The PG sample code which comes with the box is not great (stylistically)
     and is written in MPW C. After much struggling I finally managed to
     extract the position sensing code into a standalone THINK C program.

  2.  As it currently stands, the TRANSFINITE stuff only works consistently
     with system 6 of the MacOS. It DOES work with system 7, if you turn off
     32-bit addressing and virtual memory. I've coaxed the assembly source code
     for the GOLDBRICK driver from Transfinite to try to port to sys7, but
     haven't had the time to hack it out yet.

This information is taken from a flyer from Transfinite:

GOLDBRICK: The Cyperspace Interface (tm)

Summary: The Gold Brick (tm) is a device that connects the Apple Destop Buss
(tm) to most controllers compatible with and to the Nintendo Entertainment
System (tm). It allows you input from Broderbund UFORCE (tm), floor pad input
from the Nintendo Power Pad(tm), tilt sensing with the Enteractive (tm)
Roll&Rocker(tm), and POSITION SENSING WITH THE MATTEL POWER GLOVE (tm).

With Macintosh support software (system 6.0.5 or later), Gold Brick can
translate controller input into 2 or 3 dimensional motion and/or keystores as
specified by the user.

The controller and game deck interfaces are generally compatible with those of
the Motorola SPI, National Semiconductor Microwire (R), and Signetics I2C type.

According to the manufacturer the Gold Brick is already being used in the
following systems: - controlling intractive multi-media - playing virtual
instruments - giving audio feedback to speech-impaired infants - allowing
viewers to walk through computer-deisgn structures - transforming inputs on a
power pad to English sentences and music

There are a number of models available depending on your needs and budget. They
are summarized as follows:

THE GOLD BRICK COMPARISON CHART:

                        MODEL 1                         MODEL 2

                    | Release 1 (1) | Release 2     | Release 1    |
--------------------|---------------|---------------|--------------|
Part Number, Retail | GBC-1, $195   | GBC-2, $245   | GBN-1, $169  |
--------------------+---------------+---------------+--------------|
Controllers support |               |               |              |
 * Standard         | Yes           | Yes           | Yes          |
 * Power Pad        | Yes           | Yes           | Yes          |
 * "Unknown" type   | Yes           | Yes           | Yes          |
 * UFORCE           | Yes           | Yes           | Yes          |
 * POWER GLOVE      | No            | YES           | YES          |
--------------------+---------------+---------------+--------------|
Status Lights       | Three         | Three         | None         |
--------------------+---------------+---------------+--------------|
ADB Through port (2)| Yes           | Yes           | No           |
--------------------+---------------+---------------+--------------|
Game Deck Cable     | Yes           | Yes           | No           |
--------------------+---------------+---------------+--------------|
Technical Manual (3)| Yes           | Yes           | No           |
--------------------+---------------+---------------+--------------|
Upgradeable (4)     | Yes           | Yes           | No           |
--------------------------------------------------------------------

Footnotes:
(1) No longer available
(2) Permits additional apple desktop bus devices to be attatched
(3) Limited tech. doc. was included in GBC-1. A software tech. manual
    (REF-1), available separately, is included in GBC-2
(4) Uses a socketed single chip microprocessor that can be replaced with
    later versions.

ORDERING INFORMATION: Transfinite Systems Company, Inc.; PO BOX N, MIT Branch
Post Office; Cambridge, MA 02139, USA; Tel: (617) 969-9570; Applelink: D2002

Menelli box

Ron Menelli built a 68HC11-based box that duplicates the AGE box. The
schematics and code available via ftp at cogsci. They are available from the
glove-list archive server as pg-hc11.zoo and pg-hc11.tar.Z.

Several problems exist with building this box: 68HC11's aren't easy to come buy
unless you're ordering a few thousand and two of the parts for the Menelli box
will *not* be found a Radio Shack or Fry's, one will have to go mail order to
some place such as DigiKey.

PGSI

The PGSI (PowerGlove Serial Interface) is a project from UIUC and promises to
be the bestest cheapest way to use the PowerGlove with nearly any computer. The
PGSI FAQ is maintained by Ben Gross (pgsi@uiuc.edu) and can be ftp'd from
FTP.cso.uiuc.edu (128.174.5.59) in /ACM/PGSI as PGSI.FAQ. Like most FAQs, it is
irregularly posted to various newsgroups and mailing lists.

The first batch of orders were shipped in mid 1993. There is talk of another
production run, the PGSI FAQ should be checked for the latest data.

Software

[IF YOU'RE USING A SPECIFIC PACKAGE, AND HAVE COMMENTS, LET ME KNOW. -JET]

Amiga Software

The Amiga has the worst software selection at this time. There are only a
handful of basic packages for getting glove data into the Amiga via the
parallel port. Both packages work only on the A500/A2000 units. The author
strongly advises anyone interested in doing glove-work on the Amiga to go to a
serial-port based device such as the PGSI.

'amigahires.lzh' contains code to drive the glove in hires mode and grab
packets from the parallel port.

'gt.lzh' contains code to grab data from a glove attached to a parallel port
and dumps it out a port. Whiles this is The Right Way to do things on an Amiga,
the code only runs correctly on 68000 based machines.

'glovetest.lha' (also 'gt.lzh') is a useful diagnostic tool that includes the
above gt.

Mac Software

Jon Blossom's 'gossamer' package is available from ftp.apple.com.

The "Max" package for the Mac has support for the Gold Brick. It is a
development environment, so you will have to write code that translates glove
movements into the actions you want from Max. Max is produced by Opcode,
opcode@well.sf.ca.us.

PC Software

O2GLOVE is a set of sources from VRASP ([CROSS REFERENCE]) to help you write
your own PowerGlove applications for the PC.

REND386 is a PC-based rendering library that supports the PG. Demo available by
FTP from sunee.uwaterloo.ca:/pub/rend386/demo4.zip Source/developer's kit in
/pub/rend386/devel4.zip

O2GLOVE is well suited for serious glove use and programming. If you are more
interested in producing VR environments and less interested in programming,
REND386 is probably the way to go.

REND386

From the rend386 distribution:

REND386 -- A 3-D Polygon Rendering Package for the 386 and 486 Written by Dave
Stampe and Bernie Roehl

DEMO4 Documentation Version 4.10 - August 1992

This document describes how to use the new REND386 demo, called "demo4.exe".

To run the demo, just type "demo4" or "demo4 filename" where 'filename' is the
name of a .plg file, a .fig file, or a .wld file you want to have loaded.

The demo4.exe program is designed to illustrate some of the capabilities of
REND386, a polygon rendering library for 386 and 486 systems with VGA displays.

The libraries are available for free; the only reason for making the demo a
separate set of files is to give people who aren't interested in writing
software a chance to see just what can be done on widely-available hardware.

The system is fast. How fast, you ask? Well, speed is not a straightforward
thing to measure. There is a relationship between the speed of the processor,
the complexity of the scene, and the number of frames per second.

With this software, a 512-polygon scene can be rendered at speeds up to 15
frames/second on a 486/25; this corresponds to a speed of over 7000
polys/second. If you have a 486/33, it'll go slightly faster; if you have a
386/33, it'll go slightly slower. You get the idea. If you want more
frames/second, use a simpler scene (i.e. fewer polygons).

To use this demo, you MUST have a 386 or 486; it will not run at all on a 286
or below. You must also have a standard VGA display.

This version now support stereoscopic viewing; the assumption is that you have
the Sega 3D glasses and the interface described in sega.txt installed.

O2GLOVE

From the O2GLOVE distribution:

Object Glove is an object oriented driver for Mattel's Nintendo Power Glove
connected to the parallel port of a PC. It is written in C++ for Borland C++
3.1. The code has many features that make it accessible, extensible, and easy
to incorporate into existing applications. First, it runs on a wide variety of
PCs, from '286s to '486s, without modification. Second, it is interrupt driven,
which means the sampling takes place at regular intervals without requiring any
attention from the application program. Thirdly, the programming interface is
extremely simple. Since the program is object oriented, any future improvements
to the driver would be transparent to the applications that use it. More
advanced processing of the glove input can be handled by deriving classes from
the main driver class. Lastly, the code is Windows compatible.

Object Glove supports the simultaneous use of two gloves. (Support for more
gloves is possible but not planned.) Object Glove is the only publicly
available product with this capability.

There are several programs that make use of Object Glove. Included is a demo
program that displays a line drawing of a hand. The hand moves around on the
screen based on the movements of the Power Glove. There are two versions of the
demo program, one for DOS and one for Windows. In the DOS version, user
definable gestures are displayed on the screen when they are recognized. In the
Windows version, gesture recognition can be associated with system sounds.
These sounds are played through the Windows 3.1 Multimedia Interface, thus the
sounds are also user-definable. Also, a version of Rend386 has been included
that utilizes Object Glove. Rend386 is a freeware "virtual reality" program
that allows navigation though a three dimensional world. Rend386 is
customizable and allows the creation of new virtual worlds. Rend386 was written
by Dave Stampe and Bernie Roehl.

Court Jesture, supplied with Object Glove, is a gesture recognition system. It
operates in real time, allows definition of gestures by the end user, and
dispenses the gestures selectively to application objects in an object-oriented
way. Gestures can be grouped into "sets" and gesture sets can be activated and
deactivated dynamically by the application. When two gloves are used, each
glove can have separate gesture sets or the same gesture sets. As with Object
Glove, it works under DOS and Windows and has been combined with Rend386.

Summary of features:

   *  Object Oriented C++
   *  Access one or two Power Gloves on one PC parallel port
   *  Works under DOS and Windows, and with Rend386
   *  Features gesture recognition
   *  Comes with several sample applications
   *  Available as a library or as source code
   *  Includes over 60 pages of printed documentation
   *  Low cost with no runtime fee, multi-user packs available

This product is available through VRASP, the Virtual Reality Alliance of
Students and Professionals. VRASP also has Power Gloves, PC-to-Power Glove
connectors, and other low-cost Virtual Reality items for sale. VRASP is a
non-profit, educational organization devised to increase public knowledge of
virtual reality and further the development of VR technology. Membership in
VRASP includes six issues of our popular newsletter Pix-Elation, containing a
wealth of "inside" VR information and insightful articles.

A comprehensive demo program is available on the Internet. The demo includes
DOS and Windows executables, and a version of Rend386 that supports two gloves
and gesture recognition. You can use glove gestures to fly around in worlds.
The demo also includes a Windows program to move the "mouse" cursor with a
glove. Instructions for building a one or two glove connector are included.
Some sample source code is included, but in order to fully compile the demo
programs you need to buy the library. To get the demo program, anonymous FTP as
follows: Host name: sunee.uwaterloo.ca Directory: /pub/glove File name:
objglv.exe The file is a self-extracting archive. It is advisable to transfer
this file in the evening when net traffic is low. Make sure to use BINARY mode!

Unix

With the general availability of the PGSI, we'll probably see more codes for
the PowerGlove on UNIX platforms. There exist a couple of packages for older
NeXT computers and SGI's, but they require more hardware than just a serial
port.

Getting Started

With any platform, your basic steps are going to be:

  1.  Figure out what platform you're going to use.
  2.  Decide which interface for the glove you're going to use and what
     software. Your choices might be limited due to the platform you're using,
     your programming skills, and available hardware.
  3.  Plug everything together.

This section is intended for rough instructions for various platforms. It's
going to be empty the longest, simply because I don't have access to lots of
different hardware. If you'd like to submit some guidelines/instructions for a
specific platform, feel free.

Amiga Setup

options:

   *  hires via parallel
        o  hack a cable
        o  use glovetest/amigahires
        o  timing problems on A3000 series, and probably the A1200/4000 series
          make it easier to use a PGSI or a menelli box.
   *  hires via serial/PGSI|Menelli box
   *  lores via joystick port. can use any nintendo controller as well, since
     lores just mimics the controller.

Mac Setup

   *  Gold Brick
   *  PGSI

PC Setup

whole list of possibilities:

   *  PCVR instructions
   *  BYTE article
   *  hires via roll-your-own parallel
   *  hires via serial box
   *  lores via joyport.

Unix Box Setup

   *  PGSI|Menelli on serial.
   *  write your own UNIX device driver.

Related homebrew stuff

PowerGlove NES games

The following games were produced for use with the PowerGlove on the NES: Bad
Street Brawler, Glove Pilot, SuperGloveBall, Manipulator, Maze Ball.
SuperGloveBall is supposedly the game to have for the 8bit NES.

Sega glasses

Sega had a game that competed with the NES called "Sega Master system". One of
the neat doodads Sega made was a set of LCD shutter glasses, similar to Haitex
goggles (and the shutter glasses many SGI visualization tools support). They
are discontinued, and don't seem to be in most stores. SEGA used to sell
refurbished units, but they're out as well.

Toshiba goggles

supposedly better than sega. [FIND OUT FROM alt.3d?]

UForce controller

Broderbund makes/sells a NES-controller compatible 3space sensor. Two plates at
right angles contain a set of infrared emitters and detectors. It has an
NES-controller-mode and (yet another) "analog" mode. No one has decoded the
analog information and made it available to the net. The UForce is currently
available.

This is Ethan Dicks' UForce FAQ:

Ethan Dicks <erd@kumiss.cmhnet.org> Version 1.0 24-Mar-1992

"Uforce 101..."

The Uforce has 9 total IR emitters and detectors of which 8 may be active at
any given time. The four configuration switches are divided into two functional
groups. The first three select a sample mode which determines how the Uforce
will present the data to the host and the last switch selects which of two
particular sensors is active. Seven of the eight possible arrangements of the
first three config switches places the Uforce into "Threshold mode" wherin the
device compares the values of the various sensors against known thresholds in
ROM and provides the host with a standard NES 8 bit packet containing
up/down/left/right/select/start/A/B information. When all three switches are
down, the Uforce is placed into "Analog mode" wherin a multi-byte packet with
raw information about each IR sensor is provided to the host. The format is as
follows... (all values in hex)

 Flag      S 7     S 6     S 5     S 4     S 3     S 2      S 1     S 0
FC-FF*    01-FB    01-FB    01-FB    01-FB    01-FB    01-FB    01-FB    01-FB

FF = no buttons pressed
FE = START pressed
FD = SELECT pressed
FC = START & SELECT pressed

The flag byte is easy to spot because it is always over FC. If 00 is ever read,
it should be discarded because the Uforce is still aquiring data (this can take
up to 10 milliseconds to complete); 00 is never valid data. There must be a 150
microsecond delay between bytes; this is an NES restriction. Any routine which
is able to read in a single byte from a standard NES controller can be used to
read the Uforce in Analog mode; unlike the PowerGlove in hires mode, the Uforce
uses fairly standard techniques for sending data back to the host.

The sensor map is arranged as follows...

    +------ 0 ------+
    |   2       1   |
    |               |
    |   3       5   |
    +---------------+
    |   4           |
    |               |
    |   7       6   |
    +------ 5 ------+

Sensor 5 is controlled by the right most config switch (#4)

Supplies/Mail Order

Hacking PowerGloves requires access to information and supplies that aren't
found in obvious locations.

Scrounging

Scrounging is probably your best bet for things like PowerGloves, UForces
controllers, and other goodies. The San Francisco bay area and greater Houston
areas each sport one or more computer junk stores. In San Jose, try "Wierd
Stuff Warehouse" and "HalTed Electronics". In Houston, try "EDS", on the west
side.

Generic resale/thirft shops such as Salvation Army aren't always worth the
trouble, as they tend to toss things out that they can't obviously test or that
have no obvious function. They're also wise to corporations trying to 'donate'
broken junk. Good place to get clothes to be cut up and modified for input
gear.

Garage sales are another big win. I was having horrible luck finding anything
other than broken lawn furniture until a neighbor explained the 'right way' to
garage sale: check ads in the paper the day before, start early enough that you
hit several sales as they start and remember that you can probably talk down
people on their prices. Most importantly, don't let on that the PowerGlove
they're asking $10 for usually goes for more than $30.

If nothing else, it won't hurt to post to sci.v-r, the glove-list or related
groups your "want list".

Mail Order

DigiKey (XXX-XXX-XXXX) is a popular mail-order house with many homebrew folks.
They stock a large selection of components and whatnot. [ANYONE HAVE THEIR
NUMBER HANDY? -ERIC]

FringeWare does mailorder of lots of stuff. [INSERT REFERENCE. -ERIC]

Nintendo extension cables are available from MCM Electronics; 650 Congress Park
Drive; Dayton, Ohio; 45459-9955; 800.543.4330. The cable is called a "Nintendo
Type Joystick Extension Cable", part# 83-0325.

If you're short an L-bar, you can order one from Mattel: Mattel Toys; 7676
Reinhold Road; Cincinatti, OH; 45237.

Stores

Fry's is a large chain of stores that try to be to electronics what
supermarkets are to food. Fry's in the SF Bay area usually carry: Macs, PCs,
EO's, Newtons, Zoomers, home entertainment, electronic components, tools,
software, magazines, personal hygene supplies and junk food. (Great prices on
soda by the case.)

Radio Shack is still in business, regardless of their best attempts to do
otherwise. Their prices are outrageous compared to larger PC chains like Fry's,
even for things like a handful of resistors. They'll do anything to get your
name and address so they can kill trees to send you ads for stuff you don't
want. Don't bother with Radio Shack unless you have no other choice.

Feel free to submit information on your local electronics supplier.

Wierd Info, Trivia, References

Time to get obscure. Thanks to all who provided information and ideas.

The PG was designed by Chris Gentile (the "G" of AGE) and someone named "Novak"
at Mattel. If you meet either of them, do whatever it takes to ply their brains
for all the information you can get.

The finger sensors are made by Amtec International 3653 West 1987 South Salt
Lake City, UT 84104 USA Tel. (801) 977-0359

PowerGloves are becoming hard to find. You might want to try looking at Toys R'
Us immediately, but you're probably too late. After that, hit any chain that
ever sold Nintendo gear (see section Supplies/Mail Order).

The coolest thing thus far is the original, official, PowerGlove carrying case.
Found for around $12 (half what a glove usually costs) at a Toys R' Us in Los
Angeles area.

References

A variety of references on PowerGloves and homebrew VR. If you have more to
add, or corrections, please submit. (Also, if you know a good way to use BiBTeX
with texinfo, let me know that as well.)

A whole slew of homebrew-style VR books have hit the shelves from mass-market
publixhers (like Sams). I hope to have some references for these in the next
version of the FAQ.

- Gardner, Dana L.  "The Power Glove", Design News. 4-Dec-89 pp63-68
  (history of design and marketing of the PG, not very technical.)

- Jacobson, Linda. _CyberArts_ [COMPLETE CITATION]

- Jacobson, Linda. (new book on garage VR)

- Pausch, R.  "Virtual Reality on Five Dollars a Day".
  Proceedings of ACM SIGCHI Human Factors in Computer Systems
  Conference, New Orleans April 1991. Text file might be available for
  FTP from HITL: milton.u.washington.edu, in /public/virtual-worlds/papers

- "VPL Virtually Gone. (VPL Research loses control of its patents to
  Thomson CSF)", MacUser.  March, 1993, v9(n3). p45(1).

- Zimmerman, Thomas G. et al.  "A Hand Gesture Interface Device".
  Proceedings of CHI+GI '87, ACM 1987. pp190-192.
  (really about the prototype of the DataGlove, but also discusses
  a cheaper "Z-Glove" [Zimmerman Glove?] that used ultrasonics for
  tracking and was used with a CBM64 computer.  Probably the "original" PG.)

- Zimmerman, Thomas G and Lanier, Jaron Z.  "Computer Data Entry and
  Manipulation Apparatus and Method", VPL Research Inc.
  US Patent 4,988,981.  Redwood City, CA (USA). Jan 29 1991.

- Zimmerman, Thomas G.  "Optical Flex Sensor", Sept 17 1985
  US Patent 4,542,291

Legal Issues

THE AUTHOR IS NOT A LAYWER. THIS IS NOT LEGAL ADVICE.

That being said, there's not much you have to worry about while hacking the
PowerGlove. As long as you use other people's software with respect to their
copyright and licensing agreement and give people credit where it's due, you
should be in the clear legally.

If you decide, however, to build stuff from scratch, you should be aware of
existing patents on hardware/software.

Patents

It is the personal opinion of the author that vaguely stated patents covering
broad areas hinder the virutal reality industry more than help it. That being
said, the following are some important patents you should take a look at.

In particular, VPL (or whomever owns them this week) owns a patent covering the
'manipulation of virtual objects in a computer system' (see below).

VPL sued Jim Kramer of Virtual Technologies over a glove input device that
competed with the DataGlove. VPL lost the suit and Virtual Technologies
continues to produce their gloves. (The author does not know why the suit was
lost, if VPL retracted, or the current status of the patent.)

Selected patents:

   *  US Patent 3,022,878 'Communication device'

     Patented Feb. 27, 1962 Robert Seibel, Putnam Valley, Nathaniel Rochester
     IBM

     A further object of this invention is to provide a keyboard into which the
     hand is inserted, much as the hand is inserted into a glove. Such a
     keyboard is adaptable to being fitted into a glove.

   *  US Patent 4,414,537 'Digital data entry glove interface device'

     Patented Nov. 8, 1983 Gary J.Grimes, Bell Telephone Lab. Inc

     A man-machine interface is disclosed for translating discrete hand
     positions into electrical signals representing alpha-numeric characters

   *  US Patent 4,542,291 'Optical flex sensor'

     Patented Sep. 17, 1985 Thomas G. Zimmerman. VPL Research Inc.

     The instant invention relate generally to position detectors and more
     specifically it relates to an optical flex sensor that produces an output
     signal in response to bending

     A further object is to provide an optical flex sensor that uses
     inexpensive common materials and is assembled either by hand or with
     simple tools.

   *  US Patent 4,988,981 'Computer data entry and manipulation apparatus and
     methods'

     Patented Jan. 29, 1991 Thomas G.Zimmerman, Jaron Z.Lanier VPL Research
     Inc.

     Apparatus is disclosed for generating control signals for the manipulation
     of virtual objects in a computer system according to the gesture and
     position of an operator's hand or other body part. The apparatus includes
     a glove worn on the hand which includes sensors for detecting the gestures
     of the hand, as well as hand position sensing means coupled to the glove
     and to the computer system for detecting the position of the hand with
     respect to the system.

League for Programming Freedom

The League for Programming Freedom is dedicated to ending software patents and
user interface copyrights. They have lots of docs here. The following is from
one of their electronic fliers:

Ten years ago, programmers were allowed to write programs using all the
techniques they knew, and providing whatever features they felt were useful.
This is no longer the case. New monopolies, known as software patents and
interface copyrights, have taken away our freedom of expression and our ability
to do a good job.

"Look and feel" lawsuits attempt to monopolize well-known command languages;
some have succeeded. Copyrights on command languages enforce gratuitous
incompatibility, close opportunities for competition, and stifle incremental
improvements.

Software patents are even more dangerous; they make every design decision in
the development of a program carry a risk of a lawsuit, with draconian pretrial
seizure. It is difficult and expensive to find out whether the techniques you
consider using are patented; it is impossible to find out whether they will be
patented in the future.

The League for Programming Freedom is a grass-roots organization of professors,
students, businessmen, programmers and users dedicated to bringing back the
freedom to write programs. The League is not opposed to the legal system that
Congress intended--copyright on individual programs. Our aim is to reverse the
recent changes made by judges in response to special interests, often
explicitly rejecting the public interest principles of the Constitution.

The League works to abolish the new monopolies by publishing articles, talking
with public officials, boycotting egregious offenders, and in the future may
intervene in court cases. On May 24, 1989, the League picketed Lotus
headquarters on account of their lawsuits, and then again on August 2, 1990.
These marches stimulated widespread media coverage for the issue. We welcome
suggestions for other activities, as well as help in carrying them out.

For more information, send email to league@prep.ai.mit.edu or physical mail to:

    League for Programming Freedom
    1 Kendall Square #143
    P.O.Box 9171
    Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139

Other Gloves

Maybe you've got enough of a budget that you don't want to bother with hacking
PowerGloves. The following are other glove options that I'm aware of and
information I've received from those companies as of this writing.

CyberGlove (TM)

The CyberGlove features include:

   *  Up to 22 sensors, three flex sensors and abduction per finger, plus thumb
     cross-over, palm arch, wrist flexion and abduction
   *  Sensor output depends only on true angle of finger joints and is
     independent of joint radius or curvature.
   *  Sample at 100Hz or poll for input.
   *  Glove material is nylon/lycra blend, fingers and palm are removed for
     typing ease.

Virtual Technologies 2175 Park Blvd Palo Alto, CA 94306 USA 415.321.4900

Exos

Exos produces an exo-skeleton glove. [ANYONE HAVE CONTACT INFO? -ERIC]

VPL DataGlove

Yeah, like you can afford one.
