

			Native American Languages



At the time of first European contact, probably close to 1,000 American Indian
languages were spoken in North, Central, and South America. Although the number
of languages in daily use has steadily declined because of persecution and
pressures on the Indians to adopt English, Spanish, and other originally
European languages, well over 700 different American Indian--or, as they are
sometimes called, Amerindian or Native American--languages are spoken today.

In the United States many of the most famous linguists of the early 20th
century--among them Franz BOAS, Leonard BLOOMFIELD, and Edward
SAPIR--transcribed and analyzed North American Indian languages. Many
descriptions of Indian languages are important in the literature of the
linguistic school known as American structuralism.

Today interest in Native American Indian languages is increasing, and
Americanists, as those who study the languages are called, hold regular
meetings to report on their findings. Current research on the native languages
of the Americas is published in several periodicals, notably the International
Journal of American Linguistics.

The great diversity of Indian languages, however, has thus far prevented proof
of common origin, and most Americanists favor more conservative classifications
of the languages into a number of distinct groups.

Only a few Native American Indian languages have a written history; therefore,
comparative study must be based upon quite recent sources. Following the
traditional principles of historical linguistics, words from Indian languages
believed to be related are subjected to minute comparison, in a search for
regular correspondences of sound and meaning.

Regularity is the key: thus, while Luiseno paa-la, Papago wa-, and Aztec a-tl,
all meaning "water," do not immediately appear similar, the words are seen to
be cognate (derived from the same word in the ancestor language) when other
sets such as Luiseno pe-t, Papago woog, and Aztec o-tli, all meaning "road,"
are considered, since Luiseno initial p and Papago initial w regularly
correspond to the lack of any initial consonant sound in Aztec.

When such correspondences are discovered, the languages being compared are
judged to have a historical connection, either genetic--because of descent from
a common ancestor--or through language contact and the consequent "borrowing"
of words. As genetic relationships are discovered, languages are grouped into
families, which then are often compared themselves. Related families can be
classified in turn into larger groups called phyla (singular, phylum) or
stocks, or into even broader groupings known as macrophyla or superstocks.

On the basis of the Luiseno, Papago, and Aztec words cited above, linguists
have proposed the reconstruction of initial p sound in the words for "water"
and "road" in the Proto-Uto-Aztecan ancestor of the three languages in
question. The sounds systems and vocabulary of the ancestors of a number of
different American Indian language families have been partially reconstructed
through similarly detailed analysis by linguists. Comparison of these
reconstructed protolanguages leads to more informed conjecture about earlier
connections between the ancestor languages and the peoples who spoke them.

Language Names

Names for Native American Indian languages can be confusing. Some names are
chosen politically rather than linguistically: for instance, Creek and Seminole
are mutually intelligible Muskogean languages but are traditionally treated as
separate because the tribes who use them are different. Many Native American
Indian tribes use the word for "people" as the meaning of their nation.

Often Indian groups come to be known by a foreign term, such as the English
names Dogrib and Yellowknife for Athabascan tribes in the Northwest or the
naming of most Coastal California languages for the nearest Spanish mission
(Luiseno was the Uto-Aztecan language spoken around Mission San Luis Rey, for
example, and the Chumash language Obispeno was named for Mission San Luis
Obispo). Some other designations, occasionally derogatory, originated with
other Indians--the name Comanche, for example, is from Southern Paiute
kimantsi, "stranger." Both languages are Uto-Aztecan.

In some cases the same name has been used for two or more distinct languages.
For instance, there are two languages in Central America called "Chontal," one
Hokan and one Mayan.

The names of linguistic families and stocks are usually coined by linguists,
often by adding -an to the name of a representative language. The Yuman family,
for example, is named for the language Yuma.

Languages of Canada and the United States

Perhaps 300 languages were spoken in Canada and the United States when the
first Europeans arrived, and about 200 are still spoken by some 300,000 people.
The American explorer and ethnologist John Wesley POWELL presented the first
comprehensive classification of the languages north of Mexico in 1891, dividing
them into 58 families. Various scholars have subsequently proposed
consolidation of Powell's families into a smaller number of phyla, with the
most influential of these classifications credited to Edward Sapir. C.F. and
F.M. Voegelin introduced the most widely accepted modern classification of
American Indian languages, grouping most of the languages of the United States
and Canada into seven macrophyla, with a few families and language isolates
left unclassified (Table 1).

One phylum, American Arctic-Paleosiberian, includes both Eskimo-Aleut, spoken
from Alaska to Greenland, and the Chukchi-Kamchatkan family of Siberia. This
phylum is the only American language family to have an accepted connection with
a non-American language group.

Meso-American Languages

Recent estimates place the number of Meso American Indian languages at about
70, with at least 5 million speakers. Of course, language boundaries and
political boundaries do not coincide. The Hokan and Aztec-Tanoan phyla of North
America also include a number of Central or Meso-American languages, and some
South American groups have outlying representatives in Central America. Many of
the groupings in Table 2 are still highly controversial.

South American Languages

Linguistic diversity is greatest in South America, where many languages spoken
in remote jungle and mountain regions remain unrecorded and unclassified. There
are probably over 500 different languages still spoken, with perhaps 14 million
speakers. The various languages of the Quechua group alone have 5 million
speakers.

Broader classifications of the more than 80 South American language families
into a smaller number of macrophyla have been proposed by Joseph Greenberg,
Morris Swadesh, Cestmir Loukotka, and others. Because these South American
stocks have not as yet been fully documented with lists of cognate sets, they
are not accepted by all specialists.

Recent Controversy

Current scholarly approaches to Native American Indian language classification
are polarized. Most Americanists accept only certain parts of the Voegelin
classification, while rejecting others, with the Macro-Penutian and Hokan phyla
of North America receiving most challenges. Joseph Greenberg recently proposed
a new classification, with just three groups of languages: Eskimo-Aleut,
Na-Dene, and a third stock, Amerind, which includes all the other languages of
North, Central, and South America. Although some mainstream Americanists find
this proposal intriguing, they have criticized Greenberg's research for its
methodology and data, and the theory is not widely accepted.

GRAMMATICAL STRUCTURE

The grammatical structure--phonology, or sound system; morphology, or word
structure; and syntax, or sentence structure--of Native American Indian
languages varies considerably, but none of the languages can be called
primitive.

Phonology Though some Indian languages have a simple phonological structure
(the Arawakan language Campa, for instance, has only 17 contrastive speech
sounds, or phonemes), the phonology of others is very complex. Certain sounds,
many of which are articulated toward the back of the vocal tract, have been
cited as characteristic of the American Indian languages, but none of these
occur in all the languages. The glottal stop, made by briefly closing the vocal
cords, as in the middle of the English word uh-oh, is a common sound. Many
languages have glottalized consonants, made with a glottal stop produced
simultaneously with another consonant sound. For instance, Navajo ts'in,
meaning "bone," has a glottalized ts sound (represented by ts'), while tsin,
"tree" has a plain ts. Another common sound is a back k sound, normally written
q, articulated not at the velum, as is English k, but rather in the postvelar
or uvular region. Many languages contrast k and q in words like Cahuilla
(Uto-Aztecan) neki, "my house," versus neqi, "by myself."

Vowel systems also vary considerably. Quite a few American Indian languages
have nasalized vowels. Nasalization is represented by a tilde symbol in
Chickasaw, for example. The use of pitch accent or tonal systems (as in
Chinese) to differentiate words is more common in the Americas than the use of
contrastive stress like that found, for example, in English import, pronounced
im-port' as a verb and im'-port as a noun.

Morphology and Syntax

The most commonly cited trait of American Indian languages is
polysynthesis--the expression of complicated ideas within a single word
containing many separate meaningful elements, or morphemes. The use of verbs
with attached subject and object indicators (most often prefixes) is common; in
many languages adverbial and other elements may also be attached to the verb,
forming complex single-word sentences, like the Lakota (Siouan)
wica-yuzaza-ma-ya-khiya-pi-kte, "you all will make me wash them," which
includes the component morphemes them + wash + me + you + make + plural +
future.

While most languages have accusative case systems like that of English
(opposing grammatical categories of subject and object), active systems in
which the same morpheme is used to indicate the object of a transitive verb and
the subject of a stative verb are not uncommon. For example, the prefix ma-,
"me" in the Lakota example just presented means "I" in a sentence like
ma-s'amna, "I stink. "

Many languages use unmarked verbs for the third person. Thus Chickasaw hita can
mean either "to dance" or "he dances." Possessive and locational indicators are
often attached to nouns, as in Yup'ik Eskimo anya-a-ni (boat + his + in), which
means "in his boat." Gender distinctions like those of the Indo-European
languages are found in only a few languages, such as Garifuna (Arawakan), in
which halau, "chair," is masculine, but muna, "house," feminine. More languages
make a grammatically comparable distinction between animate, or living, and
inanimate nouns. Alienable possession or ownership is often indicated
differently from inalienable possession of items such as kinship terms and body
parts. Reduplication--the doubling of all or part of a word, usually to
indicate plurality or intensity--is common, as in Barbareno Chumash ma,
"jackrabbit," ma ma, "jackrabbits."

The arrangement of words into sentences also varies from language to language.
While the most common basic word order is Subject-Object-Verb,
Subject-Verb-Object is used in many languages, and the rarer word orders
Verb-Subject-Object, Verb-Object-Subject, and Object-Verb-Subject are also
found.

Many Native American Indian languages make use of special syntactic patterns to
distinguish among third-person participants in a sentence. Obviation (in the
Algonquian languages) and the use of the so-called fourth person (in
Athabascan) allow one participant to be coded as more important or interesting
than another. Switch-reference is the name given to an unusual grammatical
device that allows a speaker to specify whether the subject of one clause is
the same as or different from that of another clause. The English sentence "he
knows he's fat" is ambiguous. If the first "he" is known to refer to Tom, for
instance, the sentence has one meaning. If the second "he" also refers to Tom
("Tom is fat and he knows it") and another if the second "he" refers to, say,
Bill ("Bill is fat and Tom knows it"). Although the Mojave (Yuman) sentences
isay-k suupaw-pc (fat + same know + perfective) and isay-m suupaw-pc (fat +
different know + perfective) both translate as "he knows he's fat," they are
not ambiguous: the first implies that the knower is fat, while the second means
that someone else is.

The Whorfian Hypothesis

Because of different cultural needs, American Indian vocabulary structure
varies greatly, and some of the semantic concepts and sentence patterns often
seem unfamiliar to those who have not grown up speaking the languages. The
American linguist Benjamin Lee WHORF argued that the differences in semantic
and syntactic organization of languages as diverse as English and Hopi were
correlated with differences in thought processes. The so-called Whorfian
(sometimes Whorf-Sapir) hypothesis that grammatical structure reflects
cognitive structure is not widely accepted among linguists but has been
influential in other social sciences.

LANGUAGE CONTACT

Unrelated languages whose speakers are in daily contact often come to share
various grammatical traits, which can then be called areal features of the
region. In the Pacific Northwest, for instance, there are several unrelated
genetic groups with strikingly similar, unusually complex consonant systems.
Many languages of the Tupian family of South America have nasalization as an
attribute, not just of vowels or consonants, but of whole syllables, and this
feature has been borrowed by some unrelated neighboring languages.

Loanwords can reveal the prior history of a linguistic group. Alaskan languages
and some as far south as California have Russian loans, for instance, dating
from the time of extensive trade with Russia, and borrowings from Spanish are
common throughout California, the Southwest, and, of course, Latin America.
Borrowed words are often changed to fit the structure of the borrowing
language--Spanish caballo ("horse") was borrowed into Tubatulabal (Uto-Aztecan)
as kawaayu, for example, because all Tubatulabal words have final stress and
the language has no bilabial v or b sound. Indian words have also been borrowed
into English and and other European languages. The words moccasin, squash,
squaw, and toboggan, like the majority of Indian loans into English, are from
Algonquian languages; chocolate, from Aztec, tobacco, from Taino (an extinct
Arawakan language), and condor, from Quechua, are examples of words that were
borrowed first into Spanish and then into English. The names of thousands of
places throughout the Americas are of Indian origin.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

North, South and Central American Documents

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1ST_NAT.TXT Trusteeship and Self-Determination - Submitted to the UN by The
Coalition of First Nations & IITC

94-12919.TXT***Statements by Ecuador and Panama re: Draft Declaration at 12th
Session of UNWGIP - June 1994

20POINTS.TXT rail of Broken Treaties 20 Points for Renewal of Contracts --
Reconstruction of Indian Contracts and Securing an Indian Future in America!

ABOR_SOV.TXTAboriginal Rights and the Sovereignty of Countries (including a
case study of the Canadian Arctic) by Marc Denhez, Inuit Tapirisat of Canada

AILAC.TXT Initial Report of the American Indian Leaders Advisory Council to the
incumbent Reagan Administration.

AIM-UN94.TXTState of the International Confederation of Autonomous Chapters of
the American Indian Movement at the UNWGIP 12th Session, 27 July 1994

ALGONQIN.TXTThe Algonquin Nation's Presentation to the Members Committee to
Examine Matters Relating to the Accession of Quebec to Sovereignty

ANTI-IND.TXTTreaty Rights and Responding to Anti-Indian Activity by Zoltan
Grossman

ALCATRAZ.TXTThe 1969 Indians of All Nations Alcatraz Proclamation to the Great
White Father and His People

ARCTIC.TXT Science and the Indigenous Arctic - Legal basis for Inuit
Sovereignty in the Circumpolar Region by Charles Etok Edwardsen, Jr.

BILLPART.TXTPetition and Bill of Particulars on the Establishment of
Negotiations Between Indian Nations in Canada and the Gov't of Canada to
Resolve Outstanding Differences Prior to the Patriation of the Canadian
Constitution

BILPART2.TXTPetition and Bill of Particulars on the Political Standing of
Indigenous Tribes and Bands Under the Protection of the British Gov't in the
Face of Impending Canadian Independence

BREAKPT.TXTReview and Analysis of "Break Point" Actions and Strategies by
Rudolph C. Ryser 1/5/81 -- Repatriation of Canadian Constitution

CANADA11.TXTCanada's Statement at the 11th Session of the UNWGIP

CANADA94.TXTCanada's Statement at the 12th Session of the UNWGIP - July 1994

CENTENAL.TXT Centennial Accord Between the Federally Recognized Indian Tribes
in Washington State and the State of Washington

CHIPTRT1.TXT Treaty with the Ottawa, Chippewa, etc. - March 28, 1836

CHIPTRT2.TXT Treaty with the Chippewa - July 29, 1837

CHIPTRT3.TXT Treaty with the Chippewa - October 4, 1842

CHIPTRT4.TXT Treaty with the Chippewa - September 30, 1854

CIGA_CON.TXT Confederation of Indigenous Governments Constitution

CIVIL.TXT U.S. Commission on Civil Rights: Constitutional Status of American
Indians. March 1973.

COLUMBIA.TXT Territory, Environment and Development in the Pacific Coastal
Region of Columbia, by the Indigenous Community Organizations of the Choco

CREE.TXT Grand Council of the Crees (of Quebec) Submission to the UN Commission
on Human Rights July 1985 -- James Bay Hydroelectric

EDHATCH.TXT Information on Eddie Hatcher - Native American Political Prisoner
in North Carolina

EDHATCH3.TXT ***A Message From Eddie Hatcher - September 1994 (Contains new
address for Eddie)

ENV_MOU.TXT Memorandum of Understanding Between Federally Recognized Tribes of
Wash. State and the State of Washington -- Environmental Protection

ELDERUN.TXT The Statement of the Sto:Lo Nation's Elders to the UN General
Assembly 8/29/82

FISHRITE.TXT Tough Questions on Indian Fishing -- by The Northwest Indian
Fisheries Commission

FLATHEAD.TXT Racism on the Flathead Reservation by Velda Friedlander-Shelby,
Kootenai Nation

GAMBLE.TXT "Sovereignty and Common Sense" by Oren Lyons and John Mohawk

GAMBLING.TXT The Onondaga Council of Chiefs Memorandum on Tribal Sovereignty

HIGHLAW.TXT Indian Government and Canada's Reform Constitution: Indian Inherent
Rights and Reserve Powers

IAA.TXT Constitutional Exclusion Leaves Us No Choice by the Indian Association
of Alberta

IGAWS.TXT Indian Governments & Washington State: An Examination of the
Similarities & Differences in Their Positions Concerning Tribal-State Relations

ILM.TXT Terms of Reference for the Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples -
Issues which must be addressed if the R.C. is hopeful of productive results

INDCITZN.TXT Indian Nations, the United States and Citizenship by John Mohawk

INDGOVT.TXT "Who Will Govern Indian Country" by Rudolph C. Ryser

INTCAN.TXT Toward an International Recognized Political Status: Indigenous
National Coexistence With the State of Canada CWIS 3/18/83

INTRNLAW.TXT Indian Sovereignty and International Law

ITCAPLAN.TXT International Tribunal on Genocide in Central America. Planning
Doc. 1: Draft Plan of Action

ITSG_2.TXT Inter-Tribal Study Group on Tribal/State Relations - Taxation by
Indian Tribes

ITSG-CIT.TXT Inter-Tribal Study Group on Tribal/State Relations - A Separate
People: Tribal People's Citizenship Within the U.S.

JOE.TXT Presidential Address by Joe DeLaCruz to NCAI -- "Defending Our
Inalienable Rights: We Cannot Fail Our Children"

JOE_PAP.TXT Indian Self-Determination the Ideal and Indian Self-Governance the
Reality - by President Joe DeLaCruz, Quinault Indian Nation

JOE_REMK.TXT Indian Governments and Neighboring Governments: Sovereign Equality
and Standards of Conduct Within the Context of Govt-to-Govt Relations, Joe
DeLaCruz

LILLOOET.TXT The Stl'atl'imx Nation's submission for membership into the United
Nations

LLAQTA.TXT A hilarious diatribe by the Llaqta School of Journalism of Cusco
against the First World Congress of Indian People ("Yankee Imperialists")

MACAS.TXT Fueling Destruction in the Amazon - an Interview with Dr. Luis Macas,
President of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONIE)

MANIFEST.TXT Reflections on Race and Manifest Destiny by Thomas Jimson

MAPUCHE.TXT Report on the Present Situation of the Mapuche in Chile - Presented
to the UNWGIP, 27 July 1984

MISKITO.TXT Statement by MISURASATA in Spanish and English to the Sandinistas
in 1985

MORRIS.TXT Statement by Prof. Glenn T. Morris to UNWGIP on topic of standard
setting -- Religious Freedom

NEWEPLAN.TXT Newe Sogobia & the U.S.A.: Renewal of International Relations on
the Basis of Government-to-Government Respect

NEO-TERM.TXT Neo-Termination and the Reagan Administration: U.S. Assimilation
Policy with a New Label - NCAI analysis paper by Rudolph C. Ryser

NFC_JOE.TXT Keynote Address by Joe DeLaCruz to the National Fisheries
Conference, Union of British Columbia Indian Chiefs National Indian Brotherhood
5/20/80

NICAR-RE.TXT Nicaragua and the Indian Revolution by Professor Bernard Q.
Nietschmann

NICWAR.TXT Indian War in Nicaragua, Rivera Peace Initiative by Rudolph C. Ryser

NISGAA.TXT Negotiating Nisga'a Rights - an Interview with Joseph Gosnell,
Executive Chair of the Nisga'a Tribal Council

NISHNAWB.TXT Declaration of Nishnawbe-Aski by the Ojibway-Cree Nation of Treaty
No. 9 to the people of Canada delivered by the Chiefs of Grand Council Treaty
No. 9

NUXALK.TXT Statement of the Nuxalk Nation to the UN on the Definition of
"Indigenous Populations"

NWBRNSWK.TXT Union of New Brunswick Indians Presentation on Indigenous
Populations, Palais Des Nations, August 1-5, 1988, by Graydon Nicholas,
President

OAXTEPEC.TXT Second Summit Meeting of Indigenous Peoples Oaxtepec Declaration,
Oaxtepec, Mexico - October 1993

PELTIER.TXT Leonard Peltier's pre-sentencing statement to the court, June 1,
1977 - Fargo, North Dakota

QUINTRET.TXT The Quinault River Treaty signed July 1, 1855

RECOGNIZ.TXT NCAI paper on the controversy in Indian Country over federal
recognition of non-recognized tribes.

RWAIN.TXT Competing Sovereignties in North America and the Right-Wing and
Anti-Indian Movement: Preliminary Findings of the RWAIN Project, January, 1988

SCALP.TXT 21 Ways to Scalp an Indian

SELFGOVT.TXT American Indian Self-Government: Fact, Fantasy and Prospects for
the Future by Ward Churchill

SKOK.TXT Memorandum of Understanding Between the Skokomish Tribe and Mason
County, Washington

SWIN-SKG.TXT Memorandum of Understanding for Establishing Procedures for the
Administration of a Cooperative Land Use Planning Prgram between Swinomish &
Skagit County, WA

SWINOMSH.TXT Memorandum of Understanding for Establishing a Coordinated
Tribal/County Regional Planning Program Between the Swinomish Indian Tribe &
Skagit County, Wa

STEER-09.TXT Report of the 9th Meeting of the Conference of Tribal Governments
Steering Committee

STOWW.TXT Small Tribes Organization of Western Washington Draft Plan of
Operation

TCHTHNKS.TXT Teaching About Thanksgiving 2nd Edition -- a teaching manual
created by Highline School District

TREATY6.TXT Statement by the Confederacy of Treaty 6 First Nations at the 12th
Session of the UNWGIP - July 1994

TRIBFRNT.TXT Introductory Chapter to _Anti-Indian Movement on the Tribal
Frontier, 2nd Revised Edition_ by Rudolph C. Ryser, Chairman, Center For World
Indigenous Studies

TS.TXT Indian Nations & Washington State: Forming a Basis for Intergovernmental
Relations. Discussion Paper: State Policy & Indian National Policy

UBCIC.TXT Union of B.C. Indian Chiefs Aboriginal Title and Rights Position
Paper, Ratified at the UBCIC 17th Annual General Assembly

UNION_BC.TXT Remarks of the Union of British Columbia Indian Chiefs before the
5th Session of the UN Working Group on Indigenous Populations 8/3/87

UNN_C-31.TXT The United Native Nations Presentation to the Parliamentary
Standing Cmt. on Indian Affairs Respecting Bill C-31

WHITELIE.TXT The Canadian Government and the Great White Lie -- Canadian
Constitutional repatriation issues.

WISEUSE.TXT The Anti-Indian Movement in the Wise Use Movement: Threatening the
Cultural and Biological Diversity of Indian Country by Rudolph C. Ryser,
Chairman of CWIS

WSNC_1.TXT Statement by the Western Shoshone National Council at UNWGIP 12th
Session on Agenda Item #5

WSNC_2.TXT Statement by the Western Shoshone National Council at UNWGIP 12th
Session on Agenda Item #6

WW_CHRON.TXT Treaty Rights Workshop Chronologies for Western Washington Tribes
-- Timeline of Wa. history, treaty relations, and Gov. Issac Stevens

YANOMAMI.TXT Yanomami in Peril - An Interview with Davi Kopenawa Yanomami

YATAMA.TXT The YATAMA/Nicaragua Accord - Basic Preliminary Accords Between the
Government of Nicaragua and the Organization YATAMA February 2, 1988
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Source: Native Net Lists
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[ ]  Return to NativeWeb
Glenn Welker gwelker@mail.lmi.org
Last Updated: May 9, 1995
