 
   HOMOLOVI: THE RISE AND FALL OF A HOPI VILLAGE
   
   by Jeff Harrison
   News Services
   
   As long as seven centuries ago, possibly even earlier, cotton was
   important enough as a crop that Hopi Indians turned an unlikely part
   of Arizona into a major cotton-producing area, and, for awhile, a
   serious trade center.
   
   North of present-day Winslow, Hopi farmers migrated down from their
   homeland mesas 50 miles north and dug into the wide, fertile
   floodplain that straddles the Little Colorado River. There they
   planted corn, beans and squash and cotton. The Hopis lived on the
   bluffs above the river in a series of masonry villages they built,
   complete with plazas and kivas.
   
   Homolovi farmers worked the Little Colorado floodplain for about two
   centuries. Then, sometime around A.D. 1450, they packed up and left.
   
   For the past decade, Arizona State Museum archaeologists, led by E.
   Charles Adams, have been prying clues of day-to-day life out of
   Homolovi's ruins, and looking for reasons Homolovi was abandoned.
   
   Cotton may have been the reason Homolovi existed. Even then, cotton
   was a valuable commodity, and having it in quantities large enough to
   barter made Homolovi an important link in a regional trading network
   that included the Rio Grande pueblos to the east, Anderson Mesa near
   Flagstaff to the west, Sinaguas in the Verde Valley and Hohokams in
   Phoenix.
   
   With cotton, Homolovi residents could trade for basics like obsidian
   for their stone tools and projectile points, or more unusual consumer
   goods like copper bells and parrots from Mexico's west coast and
   interior.
   
   The current focus of the last four years of Adams' work is Homolovi
   II, on the east bank of the Little Colorado. Adams estimates Homolovi
   II may contain up to 1,000 rooms and as many as 40 kivas, ritual
   structures where men (women were not allowed inside) talked, performed
   ceremonies and wove cloth from the cotton grown down in the fields.
   
   To date, only 15 rooms, including a large kiva, have been excavated.
   
   Construction on Homolovi II began sometime after A.D. 1330, for
   reasons that are not yet clear. One possibility is that Hopis moved
   into the valley to wrestle control of cotton production from other
   pueblos nearby. They all may have shared the land, or there may have
   been conflict.
   
   Daily life at Homolovi was probably spartan at best. Adams says the
   diet of inhabitants was mainly corn, which they grew, and rabbits,
   which were fairly plentiful and easy to catch, and accounted for most
   of the meat eaten locally. One area of Homolovi II has an abundance of
   deer bones, but not enough of the pueblo has been excavated to
   determine if deer was used widely.
   
   Determining a precise chronology for Homolovi has been difficult.
   Tree-ring analysis is next to impossible, since nearly all of the wood
   used in construction came from nearby cottonwood trees, which do not
   show discrete rings. Adams says radiocarbon dates are also of little
   use because analyzed material comes with a correction factor of
   plus-or-minus 200-300 years, not much help when trying to pinpoint
   decades.
   
   The area is also peppered with the distinctive Hopi yellow-ware
   pottery, likely made at the Hopi mesas and brought down and possibly
   traded for textiles. Homolovi's relative lack of wood to fire pottery
   was apparently a problem.
   
   No one knows for certain why the Hopi abandoned Homolovi. One theory
   is that raids by Apaches migrating into the area forced Homolovi
   residents to retreat to the mesas. Another is that diseases carried
   ahead of the Spanish conquistadors took a toll. Adams says there is no
   evidence to support either of these theories, but little if any
   evidence of anything else, either.
   
   One possibility, says Adams, is that the topsoil in the valley may
   have eroded away after decades of continuous farming. Another is that
   the vicissitudes of drought and flood could also have dispirited
   residents.
   
   Funding for research at Homolovi has been tenuous. Adams and ASM
   archaeologist Richard C. Lange are the only paid staff. More generous
   funding in the past that allowed Adams to hire students has dried up
   under recent budget cuts. However, students still come to Homolovi for
   career experience. Adams estimates they have written about 100 papers
   and site reports, many of them finding their way into archaeology
   journals. Half a dozen graduate students have either earned or are
   currently working on master's theses. Three more are using Homolovi
   for their doctoral dissertations.
   
   Earthwatch volunteers also have provided a substantial workforce
   during the summers, as well as an important funding source to keep the
   project going. Some have returned for several seasons.
   
   Excavations at Homolovi have also resurrected Hopi interests. Hopi
   students occasionally work on the excavations. And older Hopi men
   frequently visit Adams and his crew.
   
   "I think they find it interesting," Adams says. "They're the tribal
   historians in a sense, keeping the tribal oral histories. It adds to
   the stories and information they can tell in the kivas and to their
   children and grandchildren."
   
   But the Hopis are more than just interested visitors. For Adams, they
   are a valuable living link to Homolovi, people who still very likely
   practice many of the same traditions as their ancestors who lived in
   this farm community upstream from the mesas.

