                   [Image]  [Image] [Image] [Image]  [Image]

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mythos Solo Rules: Alpha Version

The basic play of the Solo game is to complete Adventures and retain as much
Sanity as possible. You play out of a Mythos deck with the Monsters and Events
removed. These are placed in the Threat Deck, and attack you at specific points
during the Solo game. All other parts of the game remain exactly like the
regular game rules unless otherwise noted.

First you choose your investigator normally. The Hobo may not be used. Then you
build the two decks under the following constraints.

The Mythos Deck

Adventure Cards: Must have at least 10 points of Adventures and no more than
30.

Allies: You must have 3 Allies for every full 5 points of Adventures.

Artifacts: You must have 1 Artifact for every full 5 points of Adventures.

Locations: You must have the same number of locations as points of Adventures.
All locations must be different and you are limited to 1 Sanitarium for every
full 10 Adventure points.

Spells: You must have 1 Spell for every full 5 points of Adventures.

Tomes: You must have 1 Tome for every full 5 points of Adventures.

The Threat Deck

Monsters: You must have a number of Monsters whose point value totals to two
times your number of Adventure points. So a Mythos deck with 13 points of
adventures would need a Threat deck with 26 points of Monsters. Standard card
uniqueness rules apply (red dot means only one, no more than 4 of each).
Additionally, for every full 10 points of Adventure cards you must add one
Great Old One or Outer God.

Events: You should take one of each Event you have available and shuffle them.
Then add to your Threat deck 3 Events for every full 5 points of Adventures. In
addition, you must have one day and one night event for every full 10 points of
adventures.

Basic Rules

Play the game as if playing an opponent. However, whenever you play an new
location you flip a card from the Threat deck and apply it to you. Monsters
attack with any abilities listed on their card in the way which would cause you
the most Sanity loss. You may block with allies or use spells and artifacts
like normal combat. Events also affect you in the worst way possible (pretend
you are your opponent choosing what to affect). If an Event does not make sense
(such as Travel by Car) in the Solo game then it counts as no attack or effect
that turn.

When you have run out of cards to play you must pass. Passing also causes the
Threat deck to flip one card for immediate effect. Play then continues as
normal. When the Threat deck runs out reshuffle and start again.

You win if you complete all your Adventures before going insane. You also want
to have the highest Sanity possible remaining, so to complete all your
Adventures and end with 20 Sanity would be the best you could possibly do.

Notes: If you wish to play Adventure cards with Monsters or Events needed you
must put one of each needed card in your Mythos deck. For any Monsters, you
must place an identical card in the Threat deck. Now, when you play a Monster
or Event, it is like playing a location, and a card from the Threat deck is
flipped. If you have a Monster out now, it can also defend, but only for this
combat, after which it is buried.

If any effects don't make sense or seem strange, either don't use the card or
rule that it works in the way which affects you the worst.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                [Image] [Image]

Go to top of page
